
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Aegon I Targaryen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Aegon I   
 Aegon the Conqueror by  Amok© Biographical Information Reign 
 1 AC  -  37 AC Coronation 
 1 AC Full Name 
Aegon Targaryen the First of His Name Alias 
Aegon the Conqueror [1] Aegon the Dragonlord [1] Aegon the Dragon [2] Other Titles 
 King of All Westeros Shield of His People King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Lord of the Seven Kingdoms Protector of the Realm Lord of Dragonstone Born in 
 27 BC [3] , at  Dragonstone Died in 
 37 AC [4] , at  Dragonstone Family Royal House 
 House Targaryen Predecessor 
None Heir 
 Aenys Targaryen Successor 
 Aenys I Targaryen Queen 
 Visenya Targaryen Rhaenys Targaryen Issue 
 Aenys I Targaryen Maegor I Targaryen Father 
 Aerion Targaryen Mother 
 Valaena Velaryon References Books 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) The Princess and the Queen  (mentioned) The Hedge Knight  (mentioned) The Sworn Sword  (mentioned) The Mystery Knight  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 For other uses, see  Aegon Targaryen . 
 Aegon I Targaryen , also known as  Aegon the Conqueror  and  Aegon the Dragon , was the first  Lord of the Seven Kingdoms  and king on the  Iron Throne , having conquered six of the  Seven Kingdoms  during  the Conquest . The  dragonlord  was the founder of the ruling  Targaryen  dynasty of  Westeros .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Biography 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   The Conquest 
 2.3   First Dornish War 
 2.4   Further Reign 
 2.5   The Sons of the Dragon 
 2.6   Death 
 
 
 3   Small Council under Aegon I 
 4   Quotes by Aegon 
 5   Quotes about Aegon 
 6   Family 
 7   Behind the Scenes 
 8   References 
 9   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Aegon I Targaryen 
 Aegon was tall, broad-shouldered and powerful in appearance, with  purple eyes  and short-cut silver-gold hair. He was very charismatic and commanding. During  his Conquest  he typically wore a shirt of black scales into battle and wielded  Blackfyre , a  bastard sword  made of  Valyrian steel . His  crown  was a simple circlet of Valyrian steel, set with big square-cut rubies. [5] 
 Aegon was seen as an enigma. He was a solitary person whose only friend was  Orys Baratheon . He was a great warrior but only rode his  dragon ,  Balerion , for battle or travel and never entered  tourneys . Aegon remained faithful to his sisters and left governance in their hands and only took command when necessary. While he was harsh with those who defied him, he was generous to those that bent the knee. [3] 
 Aegon is not considered to have been particularly pious. [3]  According to a semi-canon source, he followed the  Faith of the Seven  for political reasons. [6] 
 
 Biography 
 Early life 
   Aegon the Conqueror, by Magali Villeneuve. 
 Aegon was born on  Dragonstone [7]  in  27 BC  to Lord  Aerion Targaryen  and Lady  Valaena Velaryon . He had an older sister,  Visenya , and a younger sister,  Rhaenys . According to  Valyrian  and  Targaryen  tradition, Aegon married within the family; however, instead of taking only one sister to wife, as had been common, he married both of them. Aegon had claimed the dragon  Balerion  for his own prior to his marriage. [3] 
 Aegon was born in the latter half of the  Century of Blood , during which  Volantis  attempted to expand their power, as they saw themselves as the rightful heirs to the remains of the  Valyrian Freehold . The other  Free Cities  rose up against Volantis, and when  Pentos  and  Tyrosh  asked for his aid in their struggle against Volantis, Aegon flew to Pentos atop of Balerion to meet with the  Prince of Pentos  and the city's  magisters . Aegon next flew to  Lys , where he burned a Volantene fleet before it could attempt to invade the city. Shortly after, Aegon returned to Dragonstone. [8] 
 
 The Conquest 
 Main article:  Aegon's Conquest 
 While the  Century of Blood  came to an end, Aegon's interest in  Westeros  grew. He had previously visited the  Citadel  of  Oldtown  and the  Arbor  in the  Kingdom of the Reach  with his sister Visenya, and might also have visited  Lannisport  in the  Kingdom of the Rock . [3]  A huge wooden table, cut in the shape of Westeros, with a map painted upon the surface. No borders were painted upon the  Painted Table , however, as Aegon believed it should be one realm instead of seven. [9] 
 Storm King   Argilac Durrandon  reached out to Aegon, proposing a  marriage  between Aegon and his only daughter, Princess  Argella . All the lands east of the  Gods Eye  from the  Trident  to the  Blackwater Rush  were offered as her dowry. Even though the lands did not belong to Argilac, the offer was an attempt to create a buffer between his own kingdom, and that of  Harren Hoare . Aegon spurned the offer, stating he had no need of a  third wife , and offered his close friend and rumored  bastard  half-brother  Orys Baratheon  instead, in return for lands. Insulted, Argilac cut off the hands of Aegon's envoy and sent those back to Dragonstone, upon which Aegon called his councilors together. After six days of consulting, Aegon sent forth ravens to every lord in Westeros, declaring his claim to the throne. [3] 
 Aegon  landed  with his army on the eastern coast of Westeros at the mouth of the  Blackwater Rush , where he constructed the wooden  Aegonfort .  House Rosby  and  House Stokeworth  surrendered to him quickly, and  House Mooton and Darklyn were quickly defeated  in the first battle. Making use of their three  dragons  ( Balerion ,  Meraxes , and  Vhagar ), Aegon, Rhaenys, and Visenya conquered or subjected six of the seven kingdoms of Westeros. Only  Dorne  remained untaken. Aegon established the  riverlands  as a separate region from the  Iron Islands , and placed them under the rule of  House Tully . [3] 
 Aegon chose to date the beginning of his reign from the day the  High Septon  anointed him in  Oldtown . [10]  Rather than ruling from Oldtown or Dragonstone, Aegon chose to make his seat  King's Landing , the new settlement growing around the Aegonfort. He also took the swords of his defeated enemies, forging them into the  Iron Throne . Aegon also created the offices of the small council as well as that of the  Hand of the King , with  Orys Baratheon  becoming his first Hand. [3] 
 In  2 AC , Aegon finally turned his attention to the  Iron Islands , where the  Ironborn  had been fighting for two years over the kingship. Aegon landed on  Great Wyk  with Balerion, and a war fleet to deal with the contenders. Aegon personally cut down  Qhorin Volmark , while the priest-king  Lodos  walked into the sea, drowning himself. The other contenders quickly bend the knee. Aegon ignored the suggestions of making the ironborn vassals to the  Tullys  of  Riverrun  or the  Lannisters  of  Casterly Rock , as well as the suggestion to exterminate the ironborn by dragonflame. Instead, Aegon allowed the ironborn to name their own lord paramount, for which the ironborn chose  Vickon Greyjoy . [11] 
 
 First Dornish War 
   King Aegon with his sister-queens  Visenya  (left) and  Rhaenys  (right), by Amok ©. 
 Main article:  First Dornish War 
 Aegon turned his attention back on  Dorne  in  4 AC . The king launched a new invasion, hoping to complete  his conquest . The  First Dornish War  lasted nine years, and knew many deaths and tragedies. One of these tragedies was the capture and mutilation of Aegon's friend and  Hand of the King ,  Orys Baratheon . Following his release from the two-year captivity, Orys returned home lacking a swordhand – as did the men who had been taken captive with him. Aegon, intend on revenge, released his dragons and burned the castles of the defiant dornish lords. Yet the greatest loss Aegon faced was the death of Queen  Rhaenys Targaryen  at  Hellholt  in  10 AC , when her dragon  Meraxes  fell from the sky (with Rhaenys upon her back) when a shot from a scorpion took her in the eye. The two years that followed are known as the Dragon’s Wroth, as Aegon's wrath after Rhaenys's death knew no bounds. [12] 
 Aegon and  Visenya  placed bounties on the heads of Dornish lords after Rhaenys's death and in turn the Dornish put bounties on the Targaryens. Aegon and Visenya were assaulted on the streets of King's Landing and if not for Visenya and  Dark Sister  they would have been killed. This attack led to the forming of the elite royal bodyguard known as the  Kingsguard  in  10 AC . Visenya personally chose the men herself. [4]  The First Dornish War came to an end in  13 AC The attempted conquest of Dorne was called to an end in  13 AC , after a visit from Princess  Deria Martell , the daughter of Prince  Nymor Martell , the ruling  Prince of Dorne . She brought the skull of Meraxes and a letter with her, which was given to Aegon. After reading the letter, Aegon flew on Balerion to Dragonstone. He returned the next day, and agreed to a peace between Dorne and his kingdom. [12] 
 Aegon would keep up good relations with Princess Deria, and is known to have visited  Sunspear  together with his eldest son,  Aenys , in  23 AC  to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the peace between the Iron Throne and Dorne. [13] 
 
 Further Reign 
   Aegon the Conqueror upon  Balerion the Black Dread  by  Jordi Gonzalez  ©. 
 The remaining twenty-four years of Aegon's reign were peaceful. He spent much of his time consolidating his power by traveling throughout the Seven Kingdoms and building his capital at King's Landing. [4]  Aegon devoted half of every year to making these royal progresses. [13]  During his rule he tread carefully with the  Faith of the Seven , so they would not oppose him. [14]  Aegon built a grand sept on  Visenya's Hill  and agreed to the construction of an even grander one known as the  Sept of Remembrance  on  Rhaenys's Hill . [4] 
 King's Landing initially lacked walls, and the likely reason is that the Targaryens likely believed no one would attack a city which housed dragons. However, when he learned about a pirate fleet sacking  Tall Trees Town  in the  Summer Isles  in  19 AC , Aegon came to the realization that he and Visenya were not always in the city. As such, he ordered the construction of massive walls to be built around the city. Construction began in  20 AC , and was completed in  26 AC . [4] 
 After Aegon celebrated his sixtieth name day in  33 AC , the royal progresses continued, but were now made by his son Aenys and his wife Alyssa, while the aging king remained at home. By this point late in his reign, Aegon decided that the ramshackle Aegonfort was not a suitable seat for a king, so the structure was torn to the ground in  35 AC . Aegon moved his family and court back to Dragonstone, while he commanded the construction of what would later be called the  Red Keep . Visenya was placed in charge of the building of the Red Keep, and it was rumored that Aegon had done this so that he would not have to suffer her presence on Dragonstone. [4]  The Iron Throne remained at the build site instead of Dragonstone, since it was too heavy to be moved. [13] 
 
 The Sons of the Dragon 
 In  7 AC , Aegon became a father for the first time, when his younger sister-wife Rhaenys gave birth to a son:  Aenys . However, Aenys was a sickly boy, and Rhaenys's death in  10 AC  shattered him. Aegon grew desperate, and there were worries about whether or not Aenys would even live. As Aenys had troubled health, there were rumors that he had been fathered by a singer instead of Aegon. However, when Aenys bonded with his dragon  Quicksilver , his health improved, and the rumors faded away. [13] [15] 
 As Visenya by then had not gotten pregnant yet, some believed she was barren, and during the times when Aenys's health was still troubled it was rumored at court that Aegon might take another wife. Although Aegon refused to speak his mind on the matter, many lord and knights brought their young daughters to court. In  11 AC , Queen Visenya announced her pregnancy, and the next year she gave birth to Aegon's second son,  Maegor . [13] 
 Aegon raised Aenys at King's Landing, and took him with him on his progressions. Occasionally, he let Aenys train with his Valyrian steel sword  Blackfyre . Lacking daughters, he married Aenys to a cousin, Lady  Alyssa Velaryon , the daughter of his  master of ships , in  22 AC . Aenys would have six children with Alyssa, five of whom were born during Aegon's reign. [4] [13] [15] 
 
 Death 
 In  33 AC , Aegon made his final progress throughout Westeros, [13]  during which he visited  Winterfell . [4]  Afterwards,  Aenys  and  his wife  would make the progresses in Aegon’s stead. [13] 
 In  37 AC  on  Dragonstone , while telling his two eldest grandsons  Aegon  and  Viserys  the tales of  his conquest  at the  Painted Table , Aegon died from a stroke at the age of sixty-four. [4]  Aegon was cremated on Dragonstone, and his funeral pyre was set aflame by  Vhagar . [4]   Blackfyre  was burned along with him, but later retrieved from the pyre by Aenys. [13] 
 Although Aegon’s reign had largely been peaceful, many of his subjects desired to go back to the days of old, when there were still seven Kingdoms. Others wanted vengeance for the deaths of their loved ones in wars, and yet others saw the Targaryens as abominations. [15]  Because of this, the reigns of both Aenys and Maegor were tumulus, and filled with battles and chaos.
 
 Small Council under Aegon I 
 Although the  small council  would only be formed during the reign of Aegon's grandson Jaehaerys I, Aegon had established his councillors early on. The following members are known:
 
 
 
 Office
 
 Duration
 
 Name
 
 Notes
 
 
 Hand of the King 
 
 1 AC  -  7 AC [3] [16] 
 
 Lord  Orys Baratheon 
 
  
 
 
 7 AC  -  9 AC [17] 
 
 Lord  Edmyn Tully 
 
  
 
 
 Unknown -  34 AC [13] 
 
 Ser  Osmund Strong 
 
 Although the start of his office as Hand is unknown, Ser Osmund is known to have been Aegon's Hand when Aegon ordered the construction of the walls around King’s Landing in  19 AC . [4] 
 
 
 34 AC / 35 AC  –  37 AC [13] 
 
 Lord  Alyn Stokeworth 
 
 Ser Osmund Strong died in  34 AC , [13]  but it is currently unknown whether Alyn succeeded him in the office of Hand the same year, or the next. By  35 AC , however, he is known to have been Hand. [13] 
 
 
 Grand Maester 
 
 Unknown -  37 AC 
 
 Gawen 
 
 Although the date of Gawen taking office as Grand Maester is unknown, it is known that Gawen was already Grand Maester when Aegon ordered the construction of the walls around King’s Landing in  19 AC . [4]  Additionally, it is known that Gawen was still the Grand Maester during Aenys I's reign. [15] 
 
 
 Master of coin 
 
 1 AC  - Unknown
 
 Lord  Crispian Celtigar [3] 
 
  
 
 
 Master of laws 
 
 1 AC  - Unknown
 
 Lord  Triston Massey [3] 
 
  
 
 
 Master of ships 
 
 Aegon's Conquest 
 
 Lord  Daemon Velaryon [3] 
 
  
 
 
 Unknown
 
 Lord  Aethan Velaryon 
 
 Although it is unknown when exactly Aethan served in the office, he is known to have been Aegon’s master of ships by  22 AC , [13]  when his daughter married Aenys. [15]  He held the office at least until  30 AC . [13] 
 
 
 Lord Commander of the Kingsguard 
 
 10 AC  - Unknown
 
 Ser  Corlys Velaryon [4] 
 
  
 
 Quotes by Aegon 
 From this day forth there would be but  one king  in  Westeros . [3] 
 
 
 
 A king should never sit easy. [18] 
 
 
 
 When the sun sets,  your line  shall end. [3] 
  – Aegon, to  Harren Hoare 
 Quotes about Aegon 
 Aegon the Conqueror brought fire and blood to  Westeros , but afterward he gave them peace, prosperity, and justice. [19] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Aegon once stood here as I do, looking down on  this table . Do you think we would name him Aegon the Conqueror today if he had not had  dragons ? [20] 
  –  Stannis Baratheon , to  Davos Seaworth 
 Family 
 
                     Valaena Velaryon   Aerion               Unknown                                     
                                                                                                     
             Visenya   Aegon I   Rhaenys     Orys Baratheon   Argella Durrandon                               
                                                                             
         Ceryse Hightower               Aenys I   Alyssa Velaryon     House Baratheon                             
 Elinor Costayne                                                                                                                                         
         Alys Harroway     Maegor I   Rhaena   Aegon   Viserys   Jaehaerys I   Alysanne   Vaella               
 Jeyne Westerling                                                                                                 
         Tyanna of the Tower             Rhaella   Aerea               House Targaryen               
                                                                       
 
 
 
 Behind the Scenes 
 According to a semi-canon source,  William the Conqueror  is an inspiration for Aegon. [21] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10   3.11   3.12   3.13     The World of Ice & Fire , The Reign of the Dragons: The Conquest. 
 
 ↑  4.00   4.01   4.02   4.03   4.04   4.05   4.06   4.07   4.08   4.09   4.10   4.11   4.12     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aegon I. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Targaryen Kings (November 1, 2005) 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Asshai.com Forum Chat (July 27, 2008) 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Aegon I Targaryen. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , Ancient History: The Doom of Valyria. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 36 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Iron Islands: The Greyjoys of Pyke. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     The World of Ice & Fire , Dorne: Dorne Against the Dragons. 
 
 ↑  13.00   13.01   13.02   13.03   13.04   13.05   13.06   13.07   13.08   13.09   13.10   13.11   13.12   13.13   13.14     The Sons of the Dragon . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aenys I. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Stormlands: House Baratheon. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Riverlands: House Tully. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Historical Influences (June 20, 2001) 
 
 
 External links 
 Aegon I Targaryen  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Aegon_I_Targaryen&oldid=214799 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen Characters from the Crownlands Dragonriders King's Landing Kings of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Lords of Dragonstone Monarchs Nobles Protectors of the Realm Veterans of Aegon's Conquest Veterans of the First Dornish War   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
