
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Aeron Greyjoy 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Aeron Greyjoy   
 Aeron Greyjoy by  Amok© 
 Alias 
The Damphair Aeron Damphair Title 
Priest of the Drowned God Captain of the  Golden Storm  (formerly) Allegiance 
 House Greyjoy Drowned men Culture 
 ironborn Born 
In or between  269 AC  and  273 AC [1] , at  Pyke Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (POV) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (POV) 
 Played by 
Michael Feast TV series 
 Season 6 
 Aeron Greyjoy  is the youngest surviving son of the late Lord  Quellon Greyjoy  and Lady  Sunderly , and is a younger brother of  Balon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands . As a result of a near-death experience during  Greyjoy's Rebellion , Aeron became a priest of the  Drowned God , and is now called the  Damphair [2]  because of his wet hair. His acolytes are known as the " drowned men ". [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Feast for Crows 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.4   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Aeron 
 5   Quotes about Aeron 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 8   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Aeron Greyjoy 
 Aeron is tall and thin with fierce black eyes and a beak of a nose, [2]  but shorter than his elder brother  Victarion . [4]  Aeron garbs himself in roughspun wool robes dyed in the green, grey, and blue of the  Drowned God . [5]  The sour-faced [6]  Aeron never cuts his hair and beard, which falls to his waist and has seaweed woven into it. [5]  He carries a waterskin filled with seawater, which he uses to bless those who desire it. [2] 
 Aeron was once an amiable man, fond of songs,  ale , and women. [2]  Aeron's transformation has made him devoutly devoted to the god in his watery halls, however. He is now a dour, humorless man who views every breath as a gift that is wasted if it is not used to extol the virtues of following the Drowned God's path. [7] 
 Aeron considers himself a prophet [5]  who can hear the Drowned God. [8]  He attributes discord in the  Iron Islands  to the hated  Storm God . [8]  Aeron sometimes swallows salt water to strength his faith. [8] [9] 
 
 History 
   Aeron nearly drowned when his ship was sunk off the coast of  Fair Isle  © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Aeron was born the youngest son from Lord  Quellon Greyjoy 's second of three marriages. At six-and-ten he called himself a man, but in truth he had been a ribald drunk, who would sing, dance, play pipes, juggle and ride horses. He drank much, and claimed no man could piss longer or farther than him. He once wagered his ship against a flock of goats that he could douse a hearth-fire by urinating on it, and subsequently outraged his brother, Lord  Balon , by naming the ship  Golden Storm . [5] 
 During  Greyjoy's Rebellion , Aeron joined his brothers  Victarion  and  Euron  in raiding the coasts. Aeron nearly drowned when  Golden Storm  was sunk by the war galley  Fury  during the  sea battle off Fair Isle , when the  ironborn  fleet was caught in a trap set by the  master of ships , Lord  Stannis Baratheon . Aeron was initially believed to be lost at sea, but he washed ashore and was discovered by local fishermen, who led him to  Lannisport  in chains. Aeron spent the rest of the rebellion as a prisoner of the  Lannisters , but he was later returned to the Iron Islands. Aeron spend his time as a captive holding piss-contests with "lions, boars and chickens". [5] 
 An unknown amount of time after Greyjoy's Rebellion, Aeron went down in a storm, but washed up ashore, safely and unharmed. Due to his near-death experience, he underwent a spiritual reawakening, and dedicated himself to the worship of the  Drowned God . [2]  He became hard, humorless, and ascetic, living as a hermit on the beach, spreading the word of their god, and became known primarily by his new name,  Damphair . The acolytes serving under Aeron, called  drowned men , do Aeron's bidding without question, and he is greatly respected by the ironborn in general. [5]  He has never failed to resuscitate any of his followers with the  kiss of life . [5] 
 Aeron fears his brother, Euron, for reasons that are not made clear. He has recurring memories and nightmares of a door with screeching hinges, which he associates with Euron. [4] 
 Aeron is still afflicted with guilt over the death of another brother,  Urrigon , who died from the infection of a wound that occurred while he and Aeron performed a  finger dance , a traditional axe-juggling game among the ironborn. [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Aeron Greyjoy - by artist Anders Finer © Fantasy Flight Games 
 In the early phases of the  War of the Five Kings ,  Robb Stark ,  King in the North , sends his friend,  Theon Greyjoy , back to the  Iron Islands  to negotiate an alliance with Theon's father,  Balon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands . Aeron Damphair, Balon's brother, is sent to bring Theon from  Lordsport  to  Pyke . Since Theon has been living for years with the  Starks  of  Winterfell , who worship the  old gods , Aeron blesses Theon was seawater. [2] 
 Balon declines Robb's alliance offer, however, and Aeron attends Balon's war council regarding an offensive against the  north . [10]  Aeron and  Dagmer  accompany Theon during the  harrying of the Stony Shore , [6]  and the Damphair blesses Theon's new longships,  Sea Bitch . [10] 
 The ironmen take  Benfred Tallhart  prisoner when they ambush his  Wild Hares . When Benfred refuses to answer questions Aeron and Theon put to him, Aeron commands that the prisoner be sacrificed to the  Drowned God . Theon decides to attack  Torrhen's Square  and  Winterfell  with the crew of  Sea Bitch  and Dagmer's  Foamdrinker , granting the six remaining ships to Aeron for future raiding. [6] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Aeron in worship - by Amok © 
 After finishing the reaving, Aeron returns to his normal priestly duties in the Iron Islands. Within the Sea Tower of  Pyke , Aeron informs Balon of the defeat of his last son, Theon, at  Winterfell . Aeron opposes Balon's intention to be succeeded by his daughter,  Asha . [5] 
 While reviving  Emmond  on the shores of  Great Wyk , Aeron learns from  the Sparr  and  Gormond Goodbrother  that Balon, his oldest brother, has fallen to his death from Pyke. At  Hammerhorn  he is told by Maester  Murenmure  that another older brother, the despised  Euron , has claimed the  Seastone Chair . [5]  After preaching at villages and holdfasts on Great Wyk, Aeron rests in a driftwood shelter made by his  drowned men  at  Pebbleton  and rejects their call for him to claim the  Seastone Chair . Fearing that Euron Crow's Eye will be the ruin of the ironmen, Aeron blesses Lord  Meldred Merlyn  and calls for a  kingsmoot  on  Old Wyk  to choose Balon's replacement. [5] 
 The ironborn captains answer Aeron's summons, and most of the  Iron Fleet  returns from the  Fever River . On the shores of  Nagga's Cradle , Aeron blesses and prays with his preferred candidate, his third brother,  Victarion , whom he knows will continue Balon's traditional ways. [4]  While the captains feast and drink, Aeron consumes only fish and water, and he departs when Euron's ridicules his piety. [4]  The Damphair begins the kingsmoot's proceedings and listens to the claims of Lord  Gylbert Farwynd ,  Erik Ironmaker , Lord  Dunstan Drumm , Victarion, and Asha. He is shocked when the captains, impressed with  Euron's dragonhorn  and bold claims, instead choose the Crow's Eye as Balon's successor. [8] 
 Aeron asks Victarion to aid him in opposing Euron, but the obedient Victarion submits to the new king. The Damphair announces plans to try to rouse the  smallfolk  of the Iron Islands against the "godless" Euron, and he disappears the next day. [11]  Euron and Victarion lead the ironborn in attacking the  Reach . [11] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Aeron's niece,  Asha Greyjoy , tells  Tristifer Botley  that no one has seen the Damphair since the kingsmoot, but his  drowned men  claim that he is hiding on  Great Wyk  and will soon come forth to call down the wrath of the  Drowned God  on Euron Crow's Eye and his minions.  Erik Ironmaker , now  Lord Steward of the Iron Islands , searches for Aeron by hunting down his drowned men. Tris suspects that Euron slit the Damphair's throat, however. [12] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Aeron is revealed to have been captured after the kingsmoot by Euron's mutes and chained up in the hold of the  Silence . Euron forces him to drink  shade of the evening  and Aeron has numerous nightmarish visions. Aeron remembers how Euron used to sexually abuse him and another brother,  Urri , when they were children. On  Oakenshield  Aeron encounters  Falia Flowers . When she feeds him during his imprisonment, Falia believes Euron will make her his  salt wife  and her sons will come before Euron's other baseborn children. Aeron warns her to flee but she refuses. [13] 
 Aeron is later taken to a captured island castle located near the  Arbor . Several of Euron's lieutenants feast as a dozen bodies of the castle's former occupants hang from the rafters. All take turns mocking Aeron before taking him back to the  Silence , where Euron commands that his brother to be tied to the prow of the ship as Euron sails to meet the  Redwyne fleet . A pregnant and naked Falia is tied next to him, her tongue cut out. [13] 
 
 Quotes by Aeron 
 What is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger. [2] 
  – Aeron to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Young I was, and vain, but the sea washed my follies and my vanities away. That man drowned, nephew. His lungs filled with seawater, and the fish ate the scales off his eyes. When I rose again, I saw clearly. [2] 
  – Aeron to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Balon : The lords are gone south with  the pup . Those who remained behind are the cravens, old men, and green boys. They will yield or fall, one by one.  Winterfell  may defy us for a year, but what of it? The rest shall be ours, forest and field and hall, and we shall make  the folk  our  thralls  and  salt wives . 
 Aeron : And the waters of wrath will rise high, and the  Drowned God  will spread his dominion across the  green lands ! 
 
 Victarion : What is dead can never die. [10] 
  -  Balon Greyjoy , Aeron, and  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 
 Aeron Greyjoy was a prophet. He did not suffer petty  lords  ordering him about like some  thrall . [5] 
  - thoughts of Aeron
 
 
 The sound of a door opening, the scream of a rusted iron hinge.  Euron  has come again. [5] 
  - memory of Aeron
 
 
 The god  took me deep beneath the waves and drowned the worthless thing I was. When he cast me forth again he gave me eyes to see, ears to hear, and a voice to spread his word, that I might be his prophet and teach his truth to those who have forgotten. I was not made to sit upon the  Seastone Chair  ... no more than  Euron Crow's Eye . For I have heard the god, who says, No godless man may sit my Seastone Chair! [5] 
  - Aeron to his  drowned men 
 
 
 I was reborn from the sea, a harder man and stronger. [8] 
  - thoughts of Aeron
 
 
 I have my voice, and  the god  is with me. Mine is the strength of the sea, a strength the  Crow's Eye  cannot hope to withstand. The waves may break upon the mountain, yet still they come, wave upon wave, and in the end only pebbles remain where once the mountain stood. And soon even the pebbles are swept away, to be ground beneath the sea for all eternity. [11] 
  – Aeron to  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 
 The  ironborn  shall be waves ... Not the great and lordly, but the  simple folk , tillers of the soil and fishers of the sea. The captains and the kings raised  Euron  up, but the common folk shall tear him down. I shall go to  Great Wyk , to  Harlaw , to  Orkmont , to  Pyke  itself. In every town and village shall my words be heard. No godless man may sit the  Seastone Chair ! [11] 
  – Aeron to  Victarion Greyjoy 
 Quotes about Aeron 
 Gods, he has grown grim. [2] 
  – thoughts of  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 You ought to have no trouble catching our uncles. One is drunk on seawater, after all, and  the other  is a great grey bullock so dim he'll probably get lost. [10] 
  –  Asha Greyjoy , to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Rodrik : Aeron Damphair has called a  kingsmoot . 
 Asha : The  Drowned God  must have shoved a pricklefish up Uncle Aeron's arse. A kingsmoot? Is this some jape, or does he mean it truly? 
 
 Rodrik : The Damphair has not japed since he was drowned. [14] 
  -  Rodrik Harlaw  and  Asha Greyjoy 
 
 
 Balon  was mad, Aeron is madder, and  Euron  is maddest of them all. [4] 
  –  Baelor Blacktyde  to  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 
 I am more devout than even you, Aeron. Perhaps it should be you who kneels to me for blessing. [4] 
  -  Euron Greyjoy  to Aeron
 
 
 I think the Damphair's dead. I think the  Crow's Eye  slit his throat for him.  Ironmaker's  search is just to make us believe the priest escaped. Euron is afraid to be seen as a  kinslayer . [12] 
  -  Tristifer Botley  to  Asha Greyjoy 
 Family 
 
 Lady of  House Stonetree                           Quellon                                           Lady of  House Piper                                                                         
                     Lady of  House Sunderly                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                   
 Harlon   Quenton   Donel   Balon   Alannys Harlaw   Euron "Crow's Eye"   Victarion   Urrigon   Aeron "Damphair"   Robin         
                                                                                                         
                 Rodrik   Maron   Asha   Theon                 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Aeron Greyjoy  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 11 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 18 , The Iron Captain. 
 
 ↑  5.00   5.01   5.02   5.03   5.04   5.05   5.06   5.07   5.08   5.09   5.10   5.11   5.12   5.13     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 1 , The Prophet. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 37 , Theon III. 
 
 ↑     A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying . 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 19 , The Drowned Man. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 56 , The Iron Suitor. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 24 , Theon II. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 29 , The Reaver. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   The Winds of Winter ,  The Forsaken 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 11 , The Kraken's Daughter. 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Greyjoy . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Greyjoy. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 External links 
 Aeron Greyjoy  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Aeron_Greyjoy&oldid=218745 "  
 Categories :  House Greyjoy Characters from the Iron Islands Drowned men Nobles POV characters Rebels Supporters of Balon Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Ironborn Ship captains   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
