
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Aerys II Targaryen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Aerys II   
 Aerys II by  Amok© . Biographical Information Reign 
 262 AC  -  283 AC Full Name 
Aerys Targaryen the Second of His Name Alias 
The Mad King King Scab Other Titles 
 King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Lord of the Seven Kingdoms Protector of the Realm Ser Born in 
 244 AC [1] , at  King's Landing [2] Died in 
 283 AC [2] , at the  Red Keep  in  King's Landing Family Royal House 
 House Targaryen Predecessor 
 Jaehaerys II Targaryen Heir 
1st:  Rhaegar Targaryen 2nd:  Viserys Targaryen Successor 
 Robert I Baratheon Queen 
 Rhaella Targaryen Issue 
 Rhaegar Targaryen Shaena Targaryen Daeron Targaryen Aegon Targaryen Jaehaerys Targaryen Viserys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen . Father 
 Jaehaerys II Targaryen Mother 
 Shaera Targaryen References Books 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) Played by 
 David Rintoul TV series 
 Season 6 
 Aerys II Targaryen , also called  the Mad King  and  King Scab , was the seventeenth and last member of the  Targaryen  dynasty to sit the  Iron Throne , ruling from  262 AC  to  283 AC . [3]  His children that lived to adulthood, by his sister-wife,  Rhaella Targaryen , were  Rhaegar ,  Viserys , and  Daenerys .
 Aerys showed great promise at the start of his reign, bringing peace and prosperity to the  Seven Kingdoms , but later descended into insanity, caused by, amongst other factors, multiple miscarriages and stillbirths, the deaths of three sons, and a brief uprising known as the  Defiance of Duskendale , in which he was held prisoner for half a year by a rebellious lord. His paranoia and cruelty grew out of control. He was eventually killed by a member of his own  Kingsguard , Ser  Jaime Lannister , during  Robert's Rebellion . [2] 
 In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by  David Rintoul  who appears as the Mad King in flashbacks.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Early reign 
 2.3   The Defiance of Duskendale 
 2.4   Following the Defiance 
 2.5   Year of the False Spring 
 2.6   Robert's Rebellion 
 2.7   Sack of King's Landing 
 
 
 3   Small Council under Aerys II 
 4   Quotes by Aerys 
 5   Quotes about Aerys 
 6   Family 
 7   Notes 
 8   References 
 9   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Aerys II Targaryen 
 In his youth, while not being the most intelligent, nor the most diligent of princes, he was described as having an undeniable charm. He was generous, handsome and resolute, although somewhat quick to anger. He was also vain, proud, and changeable, traits that made him easy prey for lickspittles and flatterers. As he grew older, Aerys became increasingly jealous, suspicious and cruel, prone to furious outbursts. [2] 
 After the  Defiance of Duskendale , these characteristics became more pronounced. He began to see every unexplained event or act of minor defiance as evidence of fearful conspiracies against him, and devised sadistic punishments for those he imagined to be his enemies. He developed a  fascination with fire , which eventually grew so consuming that he could only become sexually aroused by watching someone burn to death. His marriage to his sister-wife  Rhaella , while never happy, became sexually abusive late in his reign. [2] 
 By the end of his life, Aerys's madness had taken a serious toll on his appearance, so that although only forty years old at the time of his death, he looked much older. He ate little and became gaunt as a result of his fear of  poison . [2] 
 After repeatedly cutting himself on the  Iron Throne  Aerys developed a phobia of blades, and forbade any sharp implements in his presence other than the swords of his  Kingsguard , refusing even to trim his nails or hair. His fingernails grew to cracked yellow claws nine inches long. His beard was matted and unwashed and his silver-gold hair hung down to his waist in wild tangles. His arms and legs were always covered with scabs and half-healed cuts from the Iron Throne. He wore the elaborate dragon-emblazoned  crown  of  Aegon the Unworthy . [4] [2] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
   Aerys and  Rhaella's  unhappy  wedding . 
 Aerys was born to Prince  Jaehaerys , the second son of King  Aegon V , and his sister-wife, Princess  Shaera . While still a teenager, Aerys was married to his sister  Rhaella , in accordance with the family tradition of dynastic  incest . While Aerys's grandfather, King  Aegon V Targaryen  was against this incestuous marriage (as he had been against incestuous marriages for his own children), Jaehaerys was allowed to arrange it. Jaehaerys's motivation for the marriage was a prophecy, made by a  woods witch , which had been interpreted to mean that the  prince that was promised  would be born of the line of Aerys and Rhaella. [2]  According to Ser  Barristan Selmy , who was present at the  wedding , there was no fondness between the two siblings. [5] 
 During his youth, Aerys befriended the young heir to  Casterly Rock ,  Tywin Lannister , who served as a page at the royal court. Aerys also befriended the heir to  Storm's End , his cousin,  Steffon Baratheon . The three became inseparable. [2] 
 In  259 AC , Rhaella gave birth to their firstborn son and heir, Prince  Rhaegar . He was  "born in blood and grief"  during the disaster known as the  tragedy of Summerhall , which killed King Aegon V, his eldest son Prince  Duncan , and many others. [6]  Aerys's father, Jaehaerys, ascended the  Iron Throne  after the tragedy. It would later be rumored that, on the night of Jaehaerys's coronation, Aerys took the maidenhead of Lady  Joanna Lannister , who had come to court for the celebrations. [2] 
 Aerys was a squire during the  War of the Ninepenny Kings , and fought in the  Stepstones . There, at the age of sixteen, he received his  knighthood . Aerys chose to be dubbed a knight by his friend,  Tywin . When King Jaehaerys II passed away from illness in  262 AC , after having ruled for only three years, Prince Aerys was crowned as King Aerys II Targaryen. [2] 
 
 Early reign 
   Aerys on the  Iron Throne  during his early reign, as depicted by Jennifer Drummond in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 Aerys's reign began in  262 AC  with great promise. Over the peaceful first dozen years, the realm recovered from the tragic events at  Summerhall  and the War of the Ninepenny Kings, growing strong and prosperous. However, this would not remain.
 Under his father and grandfather, the royal court at  King's Landing  had grown stuffy and conservative, filled with hidebound old men. Aerys brought sweeping changes, replacing many prominent officials with younger faces. Impressed by the ruthlessness young Ser  Tywin Lannister  had shown in dealing with a  rebellion  against  House Lannister , he named Tywin as the  Hand of the King . [2] 
 Aerys did not lack ambition. Upon his coronation he declared it was his wish to be the greatest king in the history of the Seven Kingdoms, a conceit certain of his friends encouraged by suggesting one day he would be known as Aerys the Wise or Aerys the Great. Aerys was very active in the early years of his reign and held a splendid court. He loved music, dancing and masked balls, and was exceedingly fond of young beautiful women, filling the court with fair maidens from across the kingdoms. Some say he had as many mistresses as  Aegon the Unworthy , though most historians highly doubt that. Whatever the case, Aerys always lost interest in his lovers fairly quickly. [2] 
 King Aerys was full of schemes, boasting about his grand plans, then quickly forgetting about them in less than a moon's turn. Aerys boasted upon his coronation about invading the  Stepstones  and adding them to the  Seven Kingdoms . When Lord  Rickard Stark  of  Winterfell  visited  King's Landing  in  264 AC , the king hatched a plan to build a new  Wall  hundreds of miles north of the current one and claim all the lands in between. After complaining about the stink of  King's Landing  in  265 AC , Aerys wanted to build a new city of white marble on the south bank of the  Blackwater . In  267 AC , after a dispute with the  Iron Bank of Braavos , Aerys claimed he would build a war fleet and bring the  Titan of Braavos  to its knees. When he visited  Dorne  in  270 AC , he told the  Princess of Dorne  that he would build an underwater canal and make the deserts bloom. Nothing ever came from any of these grandiose schemes, as Aerys was changeable and grew as bored with his ideas as quickly as they came to him. [2] 
 Still, the Seven Kingdoms prospered during Aerys's reign, due to his  Hand of the King , for  Tywin Lannister  was everything Aerys was not. Tywin was diligent, decisive, tireless, fiercely intelligent, just and stern. Eventually, Aerys came to regret his choice for Hand – not because of any lack of competence on Tywin's part, but rather the opposite. [2]  He proved to be a brilliant administrator, and as Hand his reputation for brutal effectiveness became so well-known and so widely respected that popular rumor held it was Tywin, not Aerys, who truly ruled the realm. [7] [2] 
 
   Aerys and his  Hand   Tywin Lannister . 
 It was Tywin who settled the dispute with the  Iron Bank of Braavos  in  267 AC , as Tywin was shrewd enough not to make an enemy of the Iron Bank. He paid the Bank back the loans owed to them by the  Iron Throne  with the gold of  Casterly Rock . Tywin also appeased the high lords by repealing all the laws, rights and protections that were granted to the  smallfolk  by King  Aegon V Targaryen . [2] 
 Tywin won the support of the wealthy merchants by reducing tariffs on shipping to  Oldtown ,  Lannisport  and  King's Landing , which increased trade. He sternly punished any baker caught mixing sawdust with bread or any butcher selling horsemeat as beef. Tywin built new roads and repaired old ones, held splendid  tournaments  about the realm to the delight of knights and commons both. Despite these accomplishments, Tywin was little loved for he was also humorless, unforgiving, unbending, proud and insensitive. Traits that earned him many rivals, even his bannermen while greatly respecting him and loyally following him to war, bore him little love. [2] 
 The relationship between Aerys and Tywin was always complicated. When he was still a prince, Aerys had developed a crush on  Joanna Lannister  who was to marry her cousin Tywin. Aerys was present at the wedding in  263 AC  and drank too much during the feast, leading to him joking that it was a great pity that the lord's right to the  first night  had been abolished and to taking certain liberties during the  bedding . It is said that Tywin did not forget Aerys's behavior. [8] [2] 
 Aerys's marriage to his younger sister,  Rhaella , was less happy than Tywin's. Aerys was known to keep many mistresses, and whilst Rhaella turned a blind eye to her husband's infidelities, she objected heavily against  "turning my ladies into whores" . In  263 AC , Lady Joanna Lannister was dismissed by Rhaella, shortly after having married Tywin. Whilst no official reason was given for Joanna's abrupt dismissal, she was not the first of Rhaella's ladies to be dismissed in this fashion, nor was she the last. [2] 
 Aerys's many relationships were not the only strain on his marriage. Rhaella's difficulties with childbirth played their part as well. In  263 AC  and  264 AC , Rhaella had miscarriages. In  267 AC , whilst Aerys was away in the  westerlands , Rhaella gave birth to the stillborn Princess  Shaena . Prince  Daeron , born in  279 AC , survived for only half a year. After Daeron, a second stillbirth followed in  270 AC , and a miscarriage in  271 AC . In  272 AC , Prince  Aegon  was born two months premature. He would die in  273 AC . [2] 
 While Aerys was compassionate at first, comforting Rhaella in her grief, he turned suspicious in time. By  270 AC , he had decided that Rhaella had been unfaithful to him, and that none of the stillbirths, miscarriages and dead princes had been his, as the gods would not want a bastard to sit the Iron Throne. He soon confined Rhaella to  Maegor's Holdfast , and ordered that two  septa 's would sleep in her bed from that moment forth, to ensure she would remain faithful. [2] 
 Meanwhile, Aerys's relationship with his Hand was breaking down as well, the pair's friendship fraying. Where previously Aerys had heeded Tywin's counsel, he now often disagreed with his Hand and did the opposite of what Tywin suggested. When  Myr  and  Tyrosh  became involved in a trade war against  Volantis , Lord Tywin suggested that  Westeros  remained neutral. King Aerys, in response, provided  gold  and arms to the Volantenese. When  House Bracken  and  House Blackwood  had a border dispute, Lord Tywin wanted to act in favor for House Blackwood, leading to Aerys siding with House Bracken. Over Tywin's objections, Aerys doubled the port fees for  Oldtown  and  King's Landing  and tripled them at  Lannisport  and other ports in Westeros. Trade suffered and a delegation of merchants arrived before the Iron Throne to protest. Aerys lied to them and blamed the matter on his Hand of the King stating;
 
 Lord Tywin shits gold, but of late he has been constipated and had to find some other ways to fill our coffers. [2] 
 
 Aerys restored the port fees to the previous levels, which won him much popularity and acclaim for himself, whilst the king's lies and actions left Tywin with nothing but scorn. Aerys objected to many of Tywin's appointments and filled the offices with men of his own choosing. When Tywin suggested his own brother, Ser  Tygett Lannister , as master-at-arms for the  Red Keep , Aerys appointed Ser  Willem Darry  instead. [2] 
 By now, Aerys had become aware of the tales being told in his kingdoms; that it was Lord Tywin who truly ruled the Seven Kingdoms and that Aerys was but a hollow figurehead. These statements greatly angered the king. When Lord Tywin's captain of guard, Ser  Ilyn Payne , had been overheard to repeat this statement, Aerys had the man's tongue torn out with hot pincers. [9] [10]  The angered king became determined to disprove the tales, and to humble Tywin, his  "overmighty servant" , putting him back into his place. [2] 
 
   Aerys deals with disturbing rumors by taking Ser  Ilyn Payne 's tongue with hot pincers. 
 In  272 AC , to celebrate Aerys's tenth year on the  Iron Throne , Tywin hosted the  Anniversary Tourney  in  King's Landing . Lady  Joanna Lannister  returned to the court for this event, bringing with her her six-year-old twins,  Cersei  and  Jaime . Drunkenly, Aerys asked Joanna if nursing her children had ruined her breasts. Whilst the question was a great amusement for Lord Tywin's rivals, it humiliated Lady Joanna. Lord Tywin attempted to resign the next morning, but Aerys refused to accept. And thus, Tywin Lannister remained Hand of the King. [2] 
 Courtiers at the court who wished to win the king's favor and gain advancement soon learned the best way to gain the king's eye was to mock and make japes about Lord Tywin. King Aerys continued to undermine and slight his Hand, which amused many lords who were rivals of Lord Tywin or who simply disliked the humorless man. Tywin Lannister suffered all these slights in silence, never showing any public display of weakness. When Joanna Lannister died in childbirth in  273 AC , the king had been heard to remark that Joanna had died, and Tywin had begotten  his dwarf son  instead from the gods,  "to teach him some humility at last" . These reports would reach  Casterly Rock , where Lord Tywin was in mourning. From that moment on, all the old affection between the old childhood friends was gone. Yet still, Lord Tywin continued to serve the realm as Hand of the King, whilst King Aerys grew increasingly violent, suspicious and erratic. [2] 
 The king's madness abated slightly with the birth of another son, who he named  Jaehaerys , in  274 AC . In fact, Jaehaerys's birth almost restored the king to his old self. This changed when Jaehaerys died later that same year. In a black rage, Aerys had the boys wet nurse beheaded, convinced it had been her fault. He soon had a change of heart, and declared that his mistress was to blame, having poisoned the young babe. Aerys had her and her entire family tortured and eventually executed. Under torture, all confessed to murdering Prince Jaehaerys, though their accounts on Jaehaerys's death greatly differed from one another. [2] 
 After this deed, however, Aerys changed his mind yet again. He fasted for a fortnight, and made a walk of repentance across the city, to the  Great Sept of Baelor . There, he prayed with the  High Septon . When he returned, he announced that he would remain true to his wife and marital vows from that moment forth. From that day on in  275 AC , King Aerys II Targaryen lost interest in all other women. [2] 
 In  276 AC , Rhaella gave birth to a son named  Viserys . While the child was healthy enough, Aerys was paranoid about the boy's safety.  Kingsguard  knights were ordered to stand over the babe, day and night. No one, not even Queen Rhaella, was allowed to be alone with Viserys. Gifts that came from all over the realm for the new prince were piled up in the yard and burned on Aerys's orders, as the king feared they might be cursed or ensorcelled. When Rhaella's milk dried up, Aerys made his own food taster suckle on the nipples of the wet nurse, to ensure there was no poison on them. [2] 
 Later that year, Lord Tywin Lannister staged a  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  at Lannisport. It has been suggested by history that this tourney was arranged as a gesture for reconciliation. [2]  At this tourney, Lord Tywin proposed a marriage between his daughter  Cersei  and Prince Rhaegar to King Aerys. However, Aerys's fear of Tywin's power and ambition led him to reject the offer rudely, saying that Tywin was a mere servant of the crown, and no servant's daughter was fit to marry a prince of royal blood. The tourney ended without a final feast and Aerys departed in a chilly atmosphere. Tywin would not forget the insult. [11] 
 
 The Defiance of Duskendale 
 Main article:  Defiance of Duskendale 
   Aerys after the  Defiance of Duskendale  - by Marc Simonetti ©. 
 Lord  Denys Darklyn  of  Duskendale  desired to win a charter for Duskendale, which would give him more autonomy from the crown. He made his proposal to the crown in  277 AC , but Lord Tywin Lannister, however, refused the proposal, but Lord Denys would not give up so easily. Having noticed the deteriorated relationship between Aerys and Tywin, Lord Denys decided to withhold his payments to the crown, and instead invited the king to Duskendale to hear his petition for a new charter. While Aerys had intended to decline the invitation, the king changed his mind when Lord Tywin advised him to refuse in the strongest possible terms. Eager to demonstrate his ability to handle the situation without the help of his Hand, Aerys decided to settle the issue personally and bring the defiant Lord Darklyn to heel. Informing  Grand Maester   Pycelle  and the  small council  of his decision, Aerys traveled to Duskendale taking a small force led by Ser  Gwayne Gaunt  of the  Kingsguard , against Lord Tywin's advice. The invitation proved to be a trap, however, and Aerys walked right into it. Some of his escort (most notably Ser Gwayne) were killed trying to defend their king, Aerys was taken prisoner. [2] 
 Outrage was the response to this news from  Duskendale . As  Hand of the King , it fell to Lord Tywin Lannister to resolve the crisis. He massed an army and laid siege to the town in what became known as the  Defiance of Duskendale . The situation remained in a stalemate for six months, with Lord Denys threatening to execute the king at the first sign that Tywin intended to storm the town. In the end, it was Ser  Barristan Selmy  of the Kingsguard who staged a daring infiltration and managed to rescue the king.
 Lord Denys immediately surrendered and begged for mercy, but in his fury Aerys immediately had him beheaded. His rage still not sated, the king next ordered  House Darklyn  utterly destroyed, along with  House Hollard , which had sided with them. Every last member of both families was tortured at excruciating length before being burned alive, with the sole exception of the child  Dontos Hollard , who was spared only at Ser Barristan's pleading. Ser Barristan later developed doubts about his actions at Duskendale, wondering whether Aerys's death in Lord Denys's dungeon and Prince  Rhaegar's  ascent to the throne would not have spared the  Seven Kingdoms  much grief. [12] [2] 
 
 Following the Defiance 
 The Defiance of Duskendale plunged Aerys deeper into his descent into madness. Deeply shaken by his imprisonment, he refused to leave the  Red Keep  for the next four years. His jealous and suspicious nature deepened into paranoia and eventually outright delusions, seeing evidence of treachery everywhere.
 Aerys's relations with Lord  Tywin  deteriorated even more rapidly. The king felt his Hand had wanted him to perish in the dungeons of Duskendale. Aerys also no longer trusted his wife or his heir. In his paranoia, Aerys believed that Tywin and Rhaegar had conspired to have him killed by storming Duskendale, so Rhaegar would ascend the  Iron Throne  and marry Tywin's daughter.
 To prevent such conspiracies between Rhaegar and Tywin, Aerys summoned his old childhood friend, Lord  Steffon Baratheon , to court, making him a member of the  small council . Aerys publicly announced Steffon would go to  Volantis , to find a bride for Rhaegar of  "proud  Valyrian  blood" . The fact that Aerys entrusted this task to Steffon instead of Tywin or Rhaegar caused many to mutter that Aerys intended to make Steffon his new Hand of the King, upon the successful completion of this mission, and that Aerys planned to have Lord Tywin arrested and executed for high treason. Many lords took delight in the prospect. [2] 
 Fate had other plans. Lord Steffon's mission turned out to be a failure and on the return voyage his ship was caught in a storm and sank, just off the coast of  Storm's End , in sight of his two eldest children,  Robert  and  Stannis . Aerys got the notion in his head that Tywin had somehow assassinated Lord Steffon. He even stated to  Pycelle  that he could not dismiss Tywin as Hand, as Tywin would have him killed then as well. In the final years of his reign where Tywin was still Hand, Aerys never met with Lord Tywin unless all seven of the Kingsguard knights were present. [2] [13] 
 His paranoia and hysterical madness ever deepening, Aerys heard word of the talents of a certain eunuch named  Varys . The eunuch was brought to court, and appointed as Aerys's  master of whisperers  on the small council. The king reasoned that only a foreigner with no competing loyalties in  Westeros  could be trusted to alert him of potential threats. The Spider, as Varys became known to the smallfolk, used the crowns gold to form a vast web of informers. Varys was always seen crouching at the king's side whispering in his ear. [2] 
 Aerys also resolved the matter of Rhaegar's marriage. In early  279 AC , Prince  Rhaegar  was betrothed to Princess  Elia Martell . In early  280 AC , the two were wed in a lavish ceremony at the  Great Sept of Baelor . Fearing to be assassinated, Aerys refused to attend. Neither did he allow Prince  Viserys  to attend. Rhaegar and his new bride decided to take up residence on  Dragonstone , instead of remaining in  King's Landing , which led some to mutter that Rhaegar planned on disposing his father and seizing the throne. Others claimed that Aerys II meant to disinherit Rhaegar and name his younger son, Prince Viserys, the new heir. The birth of Princess  Rhaenys , Aerys first grandchild, did not unite the estranged father and son. When Rhaegar presented the girl at court, Queen Rhaella embraced her grandchild warmly, but Aerys refused to touch her, stating that  "she smelled Dornish" . [2] 
 Aerys grew brutal, capricious and increasingly fascinated with fire, especially the highly flammable substance known as  wildfire  which was said to be a cousin to  dragonflame . By  280 AC , Aerys had taken to using wildfire for executing alleged traitors, rather than hangings and beheadings. The  pyromancers  became a fixture at the king's court and  Wisdom   Rossart , who carried out the executions, was eventually named to the  small council . All the executions by fire aroused the king and, while he and his wife had slept in separate chambers for some years and avoided each other by day as well, Aerys would always claim his marriage rights after such an execution by fire, brutally abusing his wife in bed. [4] 
 
 Year of the False Spring 
   Aerys the Mad King, as depicted by Arthur Bozonnet in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 When a place in the  Kingsguard  became available, after Ser  Harlan Grandison  died in his sleep, Aerys decided to appoint Lord Tywin Lannister's eldest (and  only able-bodied ) son Ser  Jaime  as the youngest knight ever to join the order. Tywin, and later his son Jaime, came to believe that Aerys had intended this not as an honor but a slight to  House Lannister , meant to deprive Tywin of his heir and allow Aerys to hold Jaime hostage for his father's loyalty. Unknown to Tywin, this scheme had originally been hatched by Tywin's very own daughter,  Cersei , who had proposed the idea to King Aerys as she wished for Jaime to join the order as to prevent Tywin from betrothing him to  Lysa Tully , as Tywin and Lord  Hoster Tully  had been discussing. [9] 
 Aerys had made his announcement during court, and Tywin had thanked him openly for the honor the king bestowed upon his House. In reality, he had been furious, and pleading illness, Tywin resign his position as Hand and returned to  Casterly Rock , with his daughter. Aerys accepted Tywin's resignation and appointed Lord  Owen Merryweather  as his replacement, an amiable but not especially competent old man whose main qualifications as  Hand  were his willingness to throw lavish feasts and offer the king constant flattery. The young knight Jaime would officially join the Kingsguard in a ceremony at a later date. [2] 
 With Lord Tywin now gone from court, the new focus of Aerys' mistrust was his own son and heir Prince  Rhaegar , who had become wary of his father's behavior. [14]  At court, there was growing tension between the factions loyal to the king and those loyal to his heir Prince Rhaegar. Aerys may have been mad and cruel to those he deemed his enemies, but he was lavish with wealth and titles to those who enjoyed his trust. [2] 
 Those loyal to the king were Lord  Qarlton Chelsted , the  master of coin , Lord  Lucerys Velaryon , the  master of ships , Lord  Symond Staunton , the  master of laws ,  Varys , the  master of whisperers , and Wisdom  Rossart . All enjoyed the king's trust and at court held great power and they had learned how to twist the king's madness to their own benefit, they had good reason to oppose Aerys' removal from the  Iron Throne . [2] 
 Rhaegar's supporters were young Lord  Jon Connington , Ser  Myles Mooton , Ser  Richard Lonmouth , and the  Dornishmen  who accompanied him at court, including Princess  Elia's  uncle, Prince  Lewyn Martell  of the  Kingsguard  and Ser  Arthur Dayne , the  Sword of the Morning  also of the Kingsguard and who was Rhaegar's dearest friend. [15] 
 It fell to  Grand Maester   Pycelle  and the  Hand of the King , Lord  Owen Merryweather  the unenviable task of trying to keep the peace between the factions, Pycelle even dispatched a letter to the  Citadel  writing that tensions and division at court strongly resembled those before the  Dance of the Dragons , Pycelle was fearful of a civil war between those loyal to the king and those who supported the prince would break out unless some accord could be reached that would satisfy both factions. [15] 
 Lord  Walter Whent  announced a  tourney  would be held at  Harrenhal  in either  280 AC  or  281 AC [N 1]  to rival any previous tournament. The tourney was to be held in  281 AC . It is believed by some that the tournament was secretly arranged and financed by Prince  Rhaegar , as a pretext, so Rhaegar could meet up with the great lords of the realm to discuss arranging a  Great Council  and the removal of his father. The tournament was announced by Lord Whent shortly after his brother Ser  Oswell , of the Kingsguard, visited his older brother. [16] [15] 
 Aerys at first was counseled by Lord Chelsted to forbid the tourney, while Lord Staunton went as far to suggest the king should outlaw all tournaments. Lord Merryweather intervened by pointing out such events were extremely popular with the highborn and lowborn and that attempting to ban or outlaw tourneys would make King Aerys unpopular and strengthen Rhaegar. Aerys decided to attend the tournament, the first time he left the  Red Keep  since the  Defiance of Duskendale , he also decided that the tournament would be the perfect place to initiate Ser  Jaime Lannister  into the  Kingsguard . [15] 
 Aerys also hoped his presence at the tourney would win back the love of his people. If that was his intention it backfired horrifically. Since the Defiance of Duskendale, the king had not taken care of his appearance. His fear of blades meant he would not permit his hair to be cut, or his nails to be groomed. His hair and beard were unwashed, matted and tangled, and his nails were yellow and grew nine inches in length. His fear and paranoia of  poison  had made him thin and gaunt. The  lords  and  knights  at the tourney were appalled at what their monarch had become. Nor was his behavior that of a sane man, going from mirth to melancholy at a snap of the fingers. His bouts of hysterical laughter, long silences, sudden rages and constant weeping made all present weary. [15] 
 In contrast, Prince Rhaegar looked every inch a leader and warrior. Tall, clean, handsome, well groomed, this Prince was unstoppable in the lists, winning bout after bout. The young Jaime Lannister said his vows before the king with the realm looking on, a cheer went up as the young handsome knight joined the  Kingsguard , a cheer that Aerys, at the time, believed to be for him. [15] 
 A  mystery knight , the  Knight of the Laughing Tree , competed in the tournament. Certain the knight had concealed his identity because he was an enemy of the crown, Aerys ordered Rhaegar to discover his identity, but the mystery knight could not be found. Prince Rhaegar went on to win the tournament, and shocked all those present by crowning  Lyanna Stark , rather than his wife, Princess  Elia Martell , his  Queen of Love and Beauty . [15] 
 The next year, in  282 AC , sometime after the birth of Rhaegar's heir, Prince  Aegon , Prince Rhaegar disappeared with Lyanna, apparently having kidnapped her. [15]  Her eldest brother,  Brandon , rode to King's Landing with several friends when word of his sister's disappearance reached him. Upon arriving at the Red Keep, Brandon roared for Rhaegar to  "come out and die."  As it turned out, Rhaegar was not present – but Aerys was. The king had Brandon and his companions arrested on charges of conspiring against the life of the crown prince, demanding that their fathers present themselves at court to answer for their sons' crimes. When they did so, Aerys had them all executed without a fair trial, except  Ethan Glover . When Lord  Rickard Stark  demanded a  trial by combat , King Aerys chose fire as his champion. Lord Rickard was burned alive by  wildfire  as Brandon was forced to watch, strapped into a torture device that caused him to strangle himself in his attempts to save his father. [17]  His paranoia still unsatisfied, the king ordered Lord  Jon Arryn  to send him the heads of Lyanna's next brother,  Eddard Stark , now the Lord of  Winterfell , and Lyanna's fiancé, Lord  Robert Baratheon , who were present at the  Eyrie . Arryn refused, and raised his banners in revolt. [18]  Thus, the king's brutal acts triggered a chain of events that would become known as the War of the Usurper to  Targaryen  loyalists and  Robert's Rebellion  to those who fought on the rebel side.  House Arryn ,  House Stark  and  House Baratheon , and later on in the war also  House Tully , unified in rebellion against the  Iron Throne . [15] 
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 Main article:  Robert's Rebellion 
 Aerys's  Hand  at the start of the rebellion was still Lord  Owen Merryweather , but he was quickly replaced for his failure to act to contain the unrest in its early stages. Aerys next turned to Lord  Jon Connington , a close friend of Rhaegar's, who promised him to deliver Robert's head. However, Connington lost to rebel forces at  Stoney Sept  in the  battle of the Bells  and was exiled by Aerys because of it. As his new Hand, Aerys chose Lord  Qarlton Chelsted . [19]  By this point, the king was becoming fearful of a rebel victory, and hatched the  wildfire plot , a plan to gain a final revenge against his enemies in the event that they took the capital. He ordered pyromancers to create a massive reserve of wildfire and secrete it around  King's Landing , plotting to burn down the entire city and kill all its half a million inhabitants rather than allow Robert to have it intact. Upon discovering the plot, Lord Chelsted confronted Aerys and, when he realized the king could not be dissuaded, resigned his position in disgust, flinging his chain of office at the king's feet. Aerys had him burned alive. The  Alchemists' Guild  had enjoyed royal favor ever since the Defiance of Duskendale owing to the king's obsession with wildfire, and Aerys appointed the head of the guild,  Rossart , his final Hand.
 After the  battle of the Trident , in which Prince Rhaegar was slain and the royal army defeated, a rebel victory was all but certain. Aerys sent Queen Rhaella (then newly pregnant with Princess Daenerys) and Prince Viserys to  Dragonstone  to escape the coming  Sack of King's Landing . However, he kept Princess Elia and her young children  Rhaenys  and  Aegon  with him at the Red Keep, believing they were necessary as hostages to ensure the loyalty of  House Martell  and  Dorne . This decision would ultimately lead to their brutal deaths at the hands of Ser  Amory Lorch  and Ser  Gregor Clegane .
 
 Sack of King's Landing 
 Main article:  Sack of King's Landing 
   Jaime Lannister  kills Aerys during the  Sack of King's Landing . 
 Hours before the vanguard of Lord  Eddard Stark 's rebel host would arrive, twelve thousand  westermen  under Tywin Lannister reached King's Landing and pledged their loyalty to King Aerys.  Varys  advised the king not to admit them to the city, but  Grand Maester   Pycelle  argued that the Lannisters should be trusted. Aerys made the fateful choice to listen to Pycelle, and opened the city gates. The Lannister forces promptly began  sacking the city  in the name of King  Robert .
 Realizing this was the end, Aerys summoned Lord Rossart and Ser  Jaime Lannister , the last remaining Kingsguard knight. Aerys had retained Jaime throughout the war to ensure Tywin's loyalty, though up until that point  House Lannister  had been neutral in the rebellion. Jaime would later remark upon the irony of the Mad King's belief that he could not be harmed if he kept Jaime close. Aerys commanded Jaime to kill his father, then gave Rossart the long-awaited order to ignite the wildfire caches and burn the city to the ground. [20] 
 Jaime later suggested that much like his mad great-uncle  Aerion the Monstrous  before him, Aerys held the delusional belief that he would not die in the inferno, but rather would be transformed by the flames into a  dragon , giving him the power to crush his enemies. However, before the plot could be carried out, Jaime slew Lord Rossart and then King Aerys, preventing the orders from reaching anyone else and thus saving the entire population of King's Landing, while earning himself the epithet  Kingslayer . Robert Baratheon claimed the Iron Throne, and the reign of the Targaryen dynasty was ended. [21] 
 
 Small Council under Aerys II 
 During the reign of King Aerys his  small council  had the following known members:
 
 
 
 Office
 
 Duration
 
 Name
 
 
 Hand of the King 
 
 262 AC  -  281 AC 
 
 Ser/Lord  Tywin Lannister 
 
 
 281 AC  -  282 AC 
 
 Lord  Owen Merryweather 
 
 
 282 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Lord  Jon Connington 
 
 
 283 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Lord  Qarlton Chelsted 
 
 
 283 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Wisdom   Rossart 
 
 
 Grand Maester 
 
 262 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Pycelle 
 
 
 Master of coin 
 
 Unknown
 
 Lord  Qarlton Chelsted 
 
 
 Master of laws 
 
 Unknown
 
 Symond Staunton 
 
 
 Master of ships 
 
 Unknown - Unknown
 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 
 
 Master of whisperers 
 
 ± 278 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Varys 
 
 
 Lord Commander of the Kingsguard 
 
 262 AC  -  283 AC 
 
 Ser  Gerold Hightower 
 
 Quotes by Aerys 
 The traitors want  my city  ... but I'll give them naught but ashes. Let  Robert  be king over charred bones and cooked meat. [20] 
 
 
 
 I want  him  dead, the traitor. I want his head, you'll bring me his head, or you'll burn with all the rest. All the traitors. [9] 
  – Aerys, to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 You are my most able servant,  Tywin , but a man does not marry  his heir  to  his servant's daughter . [11] 
  – Aerys, to  Tywin Lannister 
 Quotes about Aerys 
 Aerys was dead on the floor, drowned in his own blood. His  dragon skulls  stared down from the walls.  Lannister's  men were everywhere.  Jaime  wore the white cloak of the  Kingsguard  over his golden armor. I can see him still. Even his sword was gilded. He was seated on the  Iron Throne , high above his  knights , wearing a helm fashioned in the shape of a lion's head. How he glittered! [22] 
  –  Eddard Stark , to  Robert I Baratheon 
 
 
 Aerys was mad, the  whole realm  knew it. [17] 
  –  Catelyn Stark , to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Aerys was mad and cruel, no one has ever denied that. [9] 
  –  Brienne of Tarth , to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 A crowned beast. [4] 
  –  Jaime Lannister 's thoughts
 Family 
 
                         Aegon V   Betha Blackwood       
                                                                                                             
     Duncan   Jenny of Oldstones   Jaehaerys II   Shaera   Daeron   Rhaelle   Ormund Baratheon           
                                                                         
                     Aerys II   Rhaella               House Baratheon     
                                                                                                                                     
 Rhaegar   Elia Martell   Shaena     stillborn child     Jaehaerys     Drogo   Daenerys   Hizdahr zo Loraq             
                                                                             
 Rhaenys   Aegon       Daeron   Aegon   Viserys   Rhaego 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   The World of Ice & Fire  lists  280 AC  in  "The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II" , but  281 AC  in  "The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring" . It is unconfirmed which date is correct. 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Aerys II Targaryen  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.00   2.01   2.02   2.03   2.04   2.05   2.06   2.07   2.08   2.09   2.10   2.11   2.12   2.13   2.14   2.15   2.16   2.17   2.18   2.19   2.20   2.21   2.22   2.23   2.24   2.25   2.26   2.27   2.28   2.29   2.30   2.31   2.32   2.33   2.34   2.35   2.36   2.37   2.38   2.39     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Rhaegar Targaryen. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 11 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4   15.5   15.6   15.7   15.8     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 2 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 
 External links 
 Aerys II Targaryen  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Aerys_II_Targaryen&oldid=220264 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen Casualties of Robert's Rebellion Characters from the Crownlands Characters killed by Jaime Lannister Kings of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Knights Members of Aegon V Targaryen's court Members of Jaehaerys II Targaryen's court Monarchs Nobles Princes of Dragonstone Protectors of the Realm Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Squires Veterans of the War of the Ninepenny Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
