
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Español 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Aggo 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Aggo 
 Aggo by  The Mico © 
 Title 
 Ko 
 
 Bloodrider  of Daenerys Targaryen Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Race 
 Dothraki Culture 
 Dothraki Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
   Aggo by  Cloudninja9 © 
 Aggo  is a  Dothraki  horserider of  Daenerys Targaryen 's  khas  who later becomes one of her bloodriders.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Recent Events 
 
 1.1   A Game of Thrones 
 1.2   A Clash of Kings 
 1.3   A Storm of Swords 
 1.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 2   Quotes 
 3   References 
 4   External Links 
 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Aggo is one of four  Dothraki  warriors assigned to the  khas  of  Daenerys Targaryen  within the  khalasar  of Khal  Drogo . He accompanies Daenerys during her visit to the Western Market in  Vaes Dothrak . He helps stop an assassination attempt on Daenerys's life by a wineseller. [1] 
 When Daenerys attempts to heal  Drogo  with  Mirri Maz Duur 's aid, his bloodriders attempt to stop her.  Cohollo  is prevented from slitting Daenerys's throat when he is killed by an arrow from Aggo. [2] 
 When Daenerys names Aggo  ko  and asks him to become one of her bloodriders alongside  Jhogo  and  Rakharo , she offers him the  dragonbone  bow she received as a present during her wedding. He is at first reluctant, but he accepts after the  dragons  are born. [3] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 During their journey across the  red waste , Aggo tells Daenerys that  Drogon  is  Balerion the Black Dread  reincarnated. [4] 
 While her  khalasar  rests in  Vaes Tolorro  after crossing the red waste, Daenerys orders her three bloodriders to scout out the country, each one in a different direction. Aggo leaves to the south-west, where he find nothing but sterile desert and the ruins of two abandoned cities, one of which is warded by skulls and the other where he finds an iron bracelet, which he brings back to Daenerys. [4]  He is the second bloodrider to come back to Vaes Tolorro. After his return, Daenerys sets him to repairing the gates to defend the town should they come under attack. [4] 
 Aggo accompanies Daenerys to the  House of the Undying , where he asks her to allow him and  Jhogo  to go with her and protect her as her sworn bloodrider, though Daenerys insists there are places even a khal must walk alone. [5] 
 Afterwards, Aggo, along with  Jhogo , rides with Daenerys to Qarth's waterfront to seek a ship, where he buys a skewer of honey-roasted mice to eat. [6]  He rushes to Daenerys's aid during her second near assassination attempt and seizes  Arstan Whitebeard's  staff. He draws his  arakh  on  Strong Belwas  when the latter mocks him, but he stands down on the orders of Daenerys. [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Aggo guards Daenerys when she visits the Plaza of Pride to discuss the purchase of  Unsullied  slaves. [7]  As one of Daenery's three bloodriders, he often is asked to keep her company as to prevent  Jorah Mormont  from approaching her when alone. [7] 
 He is present when Daenerys purchases and turns the Unsullied upon the slavers of  Astapor . The night before the battle, Daenerys sees him fit a new string to his dragonbone bow, and recalls his opinion that  Eroeh 's rape by  Mago  was the Lhazareen girl's fate. [8] 
 Aggo leads the litter during the Battle of Astapor, and feathers several  Good Masters  and Astapori slavers on the day of the battle with his great bow, calmly mowing down anyone with  tokars  with pinpoint precision. [8] 
 On the march to  Yunkai , Aggo and his fellow bloodriders are also made  kos  by Daenerys and are put in charge of commanding the 30-odd mounted  khalasar  remaining to her, leaving their guarding duties to  Arstan Whitebeard  and  Strong Belwas . Aggo later participates in the  battle of Yunkai , successfully leading the Dothraki mounted warriors in wedge formation against the enemy center. [9] 
 During the  siege of Meereen , Aggo almost comes to blows with  Jhogo  and  Rakharo  over who would fight  Oznak zo Pahl , the Hero of Meereen; Daenerys ultimately stops her bloodriders from fighting, deeming them brave but too young and valuable to lose. [10] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Aggo,  Jhogo  and  Rakharo  are commanded by Daenerys to use her  khalasar  to subdue the hinterlands of  Meereen  and end the slavery there. [11]  Ser Barristan later reports the bloodriders successfully harried the slavers from the hills and struck the shackles off the slaves, and are planting and bringing crops to Meereen to market. [12] 
 Daenerys later recalls Aggo and her other bloodriders back to Meereen. They arrive in time to assist her in feeding the thousands of survivors from the  siege of Astapor , where Aggo expresses disgust at the cannibalism of the diseased refugees. He later watches in disbelief as Daenerys and his comrades help the sufferers of the  bloody flux . [13] 
 Aggo later accompanies Daenerys to  Daznak's Pit  as part of the royal procession's guard. [14]  He and Rakharo both depart Meereen and lead search parties across the Skahazadhan to locate Daenerys when she disappears on  Drogon 's back. [15]  Both lead ten picked riders and every man has three horses each to travel far and fast to find her. [16] 
 
 Quotes 
 We are blood of your blood, sworn to live and die as you do. [5] 
  – Aggo, to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 54 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 64 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 72 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Aggo  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Aggo&oldid=209670 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Dothraki sea Members of Drogo's khalasar Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
