
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Alliser Thorne 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Alliser Thorne   
 
 Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Thorne Night's Watch Born 
In 248 AC (roughly) [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Owen Teale TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6 
 Ser  Alliser Thorne  is a  knight  from  House Thorne  who now serves as the master-at-arms of the  Night's Watch  at  Castle Black . While capable, he is bitter and humorless, and is particularly hated by the recruits of the Night's Watch who have been trained by him. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Owen Teale .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Alliser 
 5   Quotes about Alliser 
 6   References 
 7   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Alliser Thorne 
 Alliser Thorne is a slim and sinewy fifty-year-old, dry and hard, with black eyes and black hair streaked with grey. [2] [3] [4]  He has a thin smile, and a sharp, cold voice. [5] [6]  He is humorless, bitter, and mean spirited. [7] [3] 
 
 History 
 Prior to joining the Night's Watch, Alliser was a knight of  House Thorne  in the  crownlands  and fought on the side of  House Targaryen  during  Robert's Rebellion . Following the  Sack of King's Landing , he was given the choice by Lord  Tywin Lannister  between death or taking the black. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Alliser Thorne - by Brittmartin © 
 As master-at-arms responsible for training new recruits, Ser Alliser gives  Jon Snow  the mocking nickname "Lord Snow". His disdain turns into hatred when Jon replies to one of his mockeries, provoking the hilarity of the whole common room of  Castle Black . [2]  Having absolutely no humor, he takes the mockeries of  Tyrion Lannister  poorly when Tyrion is invited to the table of the  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch ,  Jeor Mormont , during his visit to the  Wall . Alliser is, however, so delighted at Jon's appointment to the stewards that Jon thinks he is behind it.
 Alliser never misses an occasion to provoke the young bastard. The evening Jon learns of the imprisonment of his father, Lord  Eddard Stark , in  King's Landing  for treason, Alliser's jeers anger Jon, who tries to attack him with a knife, before being stopped and put under arrest. This mutual hostility, and the master-at-arms' old friends who are well-placed at court, lead the Lord Commander to send Alliser to the new king,  Joffrey I Baratheon , with the mission to acquire reinforcements for the Night's Watch.
 Ser  Endrew Tarth  takes Alliser's place as the master-at-arms of  Castle Black . [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After a long travel, Ser Alliser arrives in  King's Landing . In the  Red Keep , he asks for an audience with Tyrion Lannister, the acting  Hand of the King . Tyrion, remembering his dislike for Alliser, has  Bronn  find poor quarters for the visitor. [3]  Alliser appears before the throne, only to be mocked by Tyrion. However, Tyrion allows for word to be put out in King's Landing that the Night's Watch is in need of men.
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 At some point, presumably after returning from King's Landing, Alliser is appointed by Lord Commander Mormont as the new master-at-arms of  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea . He returns to  Castle Black  during the resistance to  Mance Rayder 's  wildlings siege  and becomes one of  Janos Slynt 's followers. [4]  During the choosing for a new Lord Commander, Alliser comes in sixth in voting on the first day and loses votes on the second day. He withdraws his name and decides to support Janos. [9]  Jon Snow is chosen as the new Lord Commander, however.
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 When Janos refuses to obey orders, Jon personally executes him. Ser Alliser is present when the sentence is given but does not interfere, much to Jon's disappointment. [5]  Alliser opposes Jon's decision to let  wildlings  pass south of the Wall. [10] 
 Jon later orders Alliser to accompany  Dywen  and another seasoned  ranger   beyond the Wall . Alliser is angry, but accepts the mission, not wanting to give Jon cause to execute him as well. He then states that he will return from the ranging, one way or the other. [11] 
 
 Quotes by Alliser 
 They will call you men of Night's Watch now, but you are bigger fools than the  Mummer's Monkey  here if you believe that. You are boys still, green and stinking of summer, and when the winter comes you will die like flies. [12] 
  - Alliser to his recruits
 
 
 Alliser:  Lord Snow wants to take my place now. I’d have an easier time teaching a wolf to juggle than you will training  this aurochs . 
 Jon:  I'll take that wager, Ser Alliser. I'd love to see  Ghost  juggle. [2] 
  – Alliser and  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Alliser:  Come and make your japes with steel in your hand. Tyrion:  Why, I have steel in my hand, Ser Alliser, although it appears to be a crab fork. Shall we duel? [7] 
  – Alliser and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 It would seem they have run short of poachers and thieves down south. Now they send up pigs to man the  Wall . Is fur and velvet your notion of armor, my Lord of Ham? [7] 
  – Alliser to  Samwell Tarly 
 
 
 Alliser:  Do you think I sailed all the way from  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea  to be mocked by the likes of you? This is no jape. I saw it with my own eyes. I tell you, the dead walk. 
 Tyrion:  You should try to kill them more thoroughly. [13] 
  – Alliser and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 You would like me to refuse. Then you could hack off my head, same as you did for  Slynt . I'll not give you that pleasure, bastard. You'd best pray that it's a  wildling  blade that kills me, though. The ones the  Others  kill  don't stay dead  ... and they remember. I'm coming back, Lord Snow. [11] 
  - Alliser to  Jon Snow 
 Quotes about Alliser 
 Jeor:  You are a wicked man, to provoke our Ser Alliser so. 
 Tyrion:  If a man paints a target on his chest, he should expect that sooner or later someone will loose an arrow at him. I have seen dead men with more humor than your Ser Alliser. [7] 
  –  Jeor Mormont  and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Jeor:  Ser Alliser is an anointed  knight , one of the few to take the black since I have been  Lord Commander . He fought bravely at  King's Landing . 
 Jaremy:  On the wrong side. I ought to know, I was there on the battlements beside him.  Tywin Lannister  gave us a splendid choice. Take the black, or see our heads on spikes before evenfall. [7] 
  –  Jeor Mormont  and  Jaremy Rykker 
 
 
 I don't believe I care to see Ser Alliser just now. Find him a snug cell where no one has changed the rushes in a year. [3] 
  –  Tyrion Lannister  to  Bronn 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Alliser Thorne  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 19 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 69 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 7 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 26 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4   7.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 21 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 60 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 75 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 10 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Alliser Thorne  on the  Game of Thrones Wiki 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Alliser_Thorne&oldid=213766 "  
 Categories :  House Thorne Characters from the Crownlands Knights Masters-at-arms Rangers of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch Nobles Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
