
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Alys Karstark 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Alys Karstark   
 Alys Karstark, by  Eluas 
 Allegiance 
 House Karstark House Thenn Culture 
 northmen Born 
In  284 AC  or  285 AC [1] , at  Karhold [2] Spouse 
 Sigorn  of the  Thenns Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Megan Parkinson TV series 
 Season 7 
 Alys Karstark  is a member of  House Karstark  and is the only daughter of  Rickard Karstark , Lord of  Karhold . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by Megan Parkinson.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Alys 
 5   Quotes about Alys 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Alys Karstark 
 Alys is a tall, skinny, coltish girl. She weaves her brown hair into a braid and has a small bosom. The pale girl has a long face, a pointy chin, blue-grey eyes, and small ears. [3]  Alys is almost as old as  Jon Snow . [3] 
 
 History 
 When she was six, Alys and her father, Lord  Rickard , visited  Winterfell . Despite Alys's young age, Rickard wanted her to charm  Robb Stark  in hopes of arranging a betrothal. She danced with Robb, whom she considered courteous, and with  Jon Snow , who was sullen. [3] 
 Alys is now betrothed to  Daryn Hornwood , heir to  Hornwood ; they are waiting for her to flower before they marry. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Alys's betrothed,  Daryn Hornwood , as well two of her brothers,  Eddard  and  Torrhen , are killed at the  battle in the Whispering Wood  by  Jaime Lannister . [4] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After the escape of Jaime from captivity at  Riverrun , Lord  Rickard Karstark  promises Alys's hand to whomever brings him the Kingslayer. [5]   Vargo Hoat  maims and captures Jaime with the hopes of gaining Alys in marriage, which would give him the chance to become Lord of  Karhold . [6]   Robb Stark ,  King in the North , executes Alys's father Rickard for treason, for murdering the captive  Willem Lannister  and  Tion Frey . [5] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Melisandre  prophesies to  Jon Snow ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , of a grey girl on a dying horse riding to the  Wall  to escape an arranged marriage. Melisandre believes it is Jon's half-sister,  Arya Stark , who is supposed to marry  Ramsay Bolton . [7]  Jon sends  Mance Rayder  with six  spearwives  south to aid the girl. [8] [9] 
 Alys Karstark has now flowered at Karhold.  Arnolf Karstark , the castellan of Karhold and the uncle of Alys's late father, hopes to wed the girl to his son,  Cregan Karstark . Arnolf also declares for  Stannis Baratheon  to goad the  Iron Throne  into executing the rightful heir of Karhold, Alys's brother  Harrion . To avoid marrying Cregan, Alys flees her cousin and seeks aid from Jon at the Wall. [3] 
 Ty  and  Dannel  find a weakened Alys on a dying horse near  Mole's Town  and bring her to to the chambers of Maester  Aemon  at  Castle Black . Alys reveals to Jon that Arnolf plans to betray Stannis on behalf of Lord  Roose Bolton , the new  Warden of the North . [3]  When Cregan arrives at the Wall to claim Alys, he is thrown into an ice cell by Jon. [10] 
 Ser  Patrek of King's Mountain  hopes to wed Alys, but Jon instead arranges for Alys to marry  Sigorn ,  Magnar  of  Thenn , thus creating a  new noble house  that would claim Karhold should Harrion perish. Two of Cregan's men join Alys, who believes that Karhold will open its gates to her and Sigorn's two hundred  Thenns .
 During the wedding, which is performed at Castle Black by Melisandre, Alys wears lace in her hair and leaps across a flaming ditch with her new husband. [10]  Because of the arrival of winter, Jon advises Alys during the wedding feast to send Karhold's old men and spare boys to help at the Wall. Sigorn is reluctant to dance during the feast, but he enjoys dancing with Alys once he is inebriated. [10] 
 
 Quotes by Alys 
 Before the war I was betrothed to  Daryn Hornwood . We were only waiting till I  flowered  to be wed, but the  Kingslayer  killed Daryn in the  Whispering Wood .  My father  wrote that he would find some  southron  lord to wed me, but he never did. Your brother  Robb  cut off his head for killing  Lannisters . I thought the whole reason they marched south was to kill some Lannisters. [3] 
  – Alys to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 You are my only hope, Lord Snow. In  your father's  name, I beg you. Protect me. [3] 
  – Alys to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Jon : You're not scared? 
 Alys : Let  him  be scared of me. 
 
 Jon : Winter's lady. [10] 
  –  Jon Snow  and Alys
 
 
 Melisandre : Alys, do you swear to share your fire with  Sigorn , and warm him when the night is dark and full of terrors? 
 Alys : Till his blood is boiling. [10] 
  -  Melisandre  and Alys
 Quotes about Alys 
 I have seen your sister in my fires, fleeing from this marriage they have made for her. Coming here, to you. A girl in grey on a dying horse, I have seen it plain as day. It has not happened yet, but it will. [7] 
  -  Melisandre  to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Jon : You were not right. Alys is not  Arya . 
 Melisandre : The vision was a true one. It was my reading that was false. I am as mortal as you, Jon Snow. All mortals err. [10] 
  -  Jon Snow  and  Melisandre 
 
 
 A  northern  maid and a  wildling warrior , bound together by the  Lord of Light . [10] 
  -  Axell Florent  to  Jon Snow 
 Family 
 
                                                                                   
           Unknown Karstark   Unknown wife               Arnolf   Unknown wife         
                                                                               
               Rickard                   Cregan       Arthor   
                                                                                             
   Harrion   Torrhen   Eddard   Alys   Sigorn     Three Grandsons [11]   
     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Alys Karstark  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Alys Karstark. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 44 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 63 , Catelyn X. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 20 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 31 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 31 , Melisandre I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 35 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5   10.6     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 49 , Jon X. 
 
 ↑   It is not known whether these are the sons of Cregan, or Arthor 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Alys_Karstark&oldid=205269 "  
 Categories :  House Karstark House Thenn Characters from the North Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
