
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Amory Lorch 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Amory Lorch  
 Amory Lorch by  Amok© 
 Alias 
The Manticore Title 
 Ser Castellan of  Harrenhal Allegiance 
 House Lorch House Lannister Died 
In  299 AC , at  Harrenhal Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Fintan McKeown TV series 
 Season 2 
 Ser  Amory Lorch  is a  knight  of  House Lorch  and bannerman of  House Lannister . His personal arms are a black  manticore  on a red field. [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Amory 
 5   Quotes about Amory 
 6   References 
 7   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Amory Lorch 
 Amory is a portly man of average height, described as having a pale piggy face with small pig-like eyes, and a high, thin voice. [1] [2]  He is regarded as a cruel, simple and small man.
 
 History 
 According to a semi-canon source, [3]  Amory threw the  last Lord Tarbeck , a three-year-old boy, down a well during the  Reyne-Tarbeck rebellion .
 Amory was responsible for the murder of the three-year old Princess  Rhaenys Targaryen  during the  Sack of King's Landing . Alongside and in front of several  House Lannister  men-at-arms, [4]  he dragged the screaming toddler from under her father  Rhaegar's  bed and stabbed her dozens of times. [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 At the onset of the  War of the Five Kings , Lord  Tywin Lannister  orders his brother, Ser  Kevan , to direct Ser Amory, along with his fellow bannerman Ser  Gregor Clegane  and the sellsword  Vargo Hoat , to forage the  riverlands  and to burn what he does not take. Each of the raider captains is to have three hundred cavalry. [6] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Amory's raiding party encounters and attacks  Yoren 's group of recruits for the  Night's Watch  (with  Arya Stark  hidden among them) and is responsible for Yoren's death at  the town  by the  Gods Eye . [1]  This attack is unprovoked as the Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the realm.
 Amory captures two innocent smallfolk, a beekeeper and his wife and threatens far and wide to hang them if Lord  Beric Dondarrion  does not surrender to him; when Beric surrenders, Amory hangs the beekeeper and his wife anyway with Beric strung up in the middle. Beric is later resurrected by  Thoros of Myr . [7] 
 Amory is made castellan of  Harrenhal  by  Tywin Lannister  when Tywin takes the majority of his army east to engage  Stannis Baratheon . [8]  While castellan, Amory drinks a great deal of the best wine in the castle's cellars. [9]  He is eventually captured by Lord  Roose Bolton  when Roose persuades  Vargo Hoat  to betray  House Lannister  and to seize control of the castle. After the  fall of Harrenhal , Amory is paraded naked before Roose and Vargo. Pleading and sobbing, he is kicked into the bear pit to be killed by the bear inside it. Arya Stark is present to witness Amory's death and notes, "The bear is all in black. Like Yoren". [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Tywin Lannister  tells his son  Tyrion Lannister  of his plan to blame the deaths of  Elia Martell  and her children entirely on the deceased Amory, to circumvent giving  Gregor Clegane  over to Prince  Oberyn Martell , who comes to  King's Landing  to seek justice for their deaths. [5] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Ser  Roger Hogg  tells  Jaime Lannister  how Amory attacked his towerhouse at  Sow's Horn  even though he was sworn to  House Hayford , who are sworn to  King's Landing . [11] 
 
 Quotes by Amory 
 Young boys and old men die the same. [1] 
  – Amory to  Yoren 
 Quotes about Amory 
 Vargo Hoat  had Ser Amory torn apart by a bear after the  fall of Harrenhal . That ought to be sufficiently grisly to appease even  Oberyn Martell . [5] 
  –  Tywin Lannister  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 I asked him afterward why it had required half a hundred thrusts to kill a girl of … two? Three? He said she’d kicked him and would not stop screaming. If Lorch had half the wits the gods gave a turnip, he would have calmed her with a few sweet words and used a soft silk pillow. The blood was in him. [5] 
  –  Tywin Lannister  to  Tyrion Lannister , on the murder of  Rhaenys Targaryen 
 
 
 Only a beast would harm a little girl. [12] 
  –  Arys Oakheart  to  Doran Martell 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 14 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑   The World of Ice & Fire : The Westerlands (unabridged).  georgerrmartin.com 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 39 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 38 , Arya VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 13 , The Soiled Knight. 
 
 
 External links 
 Amory Lorch  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Amory_Lorch&oldid=219205 "  
 Categories :  House Lorch Castellans Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Westerlands House Lannister retainers Knights Landed knights Nobles Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Veterans of Robert's Rebellion   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
