
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Arianne Martell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Arianne Martell  
 Illustration by Tiziano Baracchi, © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Title 
Princess Allegiance 
 House Martell Culture 
 Dornishmen Born 
In  276 AC [1] , at  Sunspear [2] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (POV) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) The Winds of Winter  (POV) 
 Princess  Arianne Nymeros Martell , better known simply as  Arianne Martell , is a member of  House Martell  and is the eldest daughter of  Doran Martell ,  the ruling Prince  of  Dorne , and his consort, Lady  Mellario  of the Free City of  Norvos . According to Dornish  customs , she is the heiress of  Sunspear , and the future ruling Princess of Dorne. Arianne is a  POV character  in  A Feast for Crows  and  The Winds of Winter .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Secret Betrothal 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.6   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Arianne 
 5   Quotes about Arianne 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Arianne Martell 
 As a young girl, Arianne was pudgy and flat-chested, and she would pray to  the Seven  nightly, hoping that she would be given beauty when she was older. [3]  Now a woman in her early twenties, Arianne is buxom and beautiful, with olive skin, large dark eyes and long, thick black hair that falls in ringlets to the middle of her back. She has full lips, a husky voice, and round ripe breasts with huge dark nipples. Favoring her mother  Mellario , Arianne is short, standing at five foot two. [4] [5] 
 When attending to matters of politics, Arianne conceals her lush and curvaceous body with flowing silks, jewels, and other ostentatious displays of wealth. [6] 
 Arianne is calculating, adventurous, and fierce-tempered. When she sees something she desires, she strives to obtain it at all cost. She does not shy away from using her looks to get what she wants, nor from seducing men to get them to do her bidding, occasionally granting sexual favors in this context. [3]  Ser  Arys Oakheart  thinks that Arianne's nature compares more to her uncle  Oberyn's  than to her father  Doran's . [5]  Arianne considers handsome men her one great weakness, in particular when they have an air of adventure and the forbidden. [3] [7]  Arianne has a vivid sexual imagination [7]  and has had sexual experiences from an early age. [5] [8] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
 Born in  276 AC , [1]  Arianne was the firstborn child of her father,  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne , and his wife, Lady  Mellario  of  Norvos . As her father's firstborn, she was Doran's heiress, according to  Rhoynish  customs and Dornish laws. [4] [5]  Arianne spent several years of her early life at the  Water Gardens . She had two younger brothers, but since  Quentyn  was sent away as a page to  Yronwood  at an early age and  Trystane  was eleven years younger than herself, Arianne was never close to them. Instead, her best companions during childhood were  Andrey "Drey" Dalt ,  Garin  (whose mother had been her  wet nurse [7] ),  Sylva Santagar , and her cousin  Tyene Sand . [8] 
 Tyene in particular was Arianne's best friend, since they were the same age, and thus were as close as sisters. [5]  Arianne and Tyene shared everything, including learning how to read, ride, and dance; they even shared a flagon of  wine  they had stolen at the age of ten, and an early attempted sexual experience with Drey. [8]  On occasion, Arianne's older cousin  Nymeria Sand  would join Arianne and her four companions, and sometimes her cousin  Sarella Sand  would attempt to join them as well. [8]  Once, Arianne crossed the  Mander  in the  Reach , when she and three of  her cousins  went to visit Tyene's mother. [7] 
 Arianne once held her young cousin Princess  Rhaenys Targaryen , but she was so young at the time that she no longer remembers. [3]  She does remember her great-uncle, Prince  Lewyn Martell  of the  Kingsguard , of whom she has cherished memories, and who used to tickle her until she could not stop laughing. [5]  When  Robert's Rebellion  ended, Arianne was seven years old. [3]  At the age of eight, Arianne became afflicted with  redspots , and learned that the disease, while harmless for children, could be lethal for adults. [7] 
 From a young age, Arianne was half in love with her uncle, Prince  Oberyn . [2]  At some point, Oberyn brought her, Tyene,  Sarella Sand , and Garin to the abandoned holdfast of  Shandystone . While Oberyn showed Tyene the best way to milk a snake's venom, and Sarella went exploring, Arianne sat on a rock, dreaming that a tall, hard robber knight, with black eyes and a widow's peak, had taken her there to have his way with her. [7] 
 
 Secret Betrothal 
   Arianne Martell - by Matt Olson © 
 Arianne had a close relationship with her father, Prince  Doran Martell , when she was a girl. She would run to him when she had hurt herself, [8]  and would go give him a good night kiss. [5]  However, when Arianne was fourteen years old, she stumbled across a half-written letter from Doran to her younger brother,  Quentyn , who was being fostered at  Yronwood . In the letter, Doran stated that Quentyn would one day sit in his place and rule  Dorne , suggesting to Arianne that Doran intended for her younger brother to succeed him, passing over Arianne entirely. According to her own account, she cried about her discovery for many days. [5]  Arianne longed to be a dutiful daughter, but wanted her father to show that he valued her. [2]  She began to rebel against her father in small ways. [2]  When she was still fourteen, she lost her virginity to  Daemon Sand , the Bastard of  Godsgrace , [5]  (an encounter which she still remembers as clumsy but sweet [3] ), and told Doran about it immediately afterwards. [2]  Doran did nothing about it, adding to Arianne's feelings that he was "very good at doing nothing". [5] 
 In truth, Doran was only planning for Quentyn to inherit the rule of Dorne because he intended for Arianne to become Queen of the  Seven Kingdoms . Unbeknownst to Arianne, her uncle Oberyn had traveled to  Braavos  years before, where he signed a  secret marriage pact  in which Arianne was betrothed to the exiled  Viserys Targaryen . [8] [9]  In return for Arianne marrying Viserys, Doran would support Viserys's claim to the  Iron Throne . [9]  He once planned to reveal the truth about the betrothal to Arianne, and was going to send her to  Tyrosh  to serve as a cupbearer to the  Free City 's  archon  and secretly meet with Viserys. However, Doran abandoned that plan due to suicidal threats from Arianne's mother  Mellario , who was already deeply upset that Quentyn had been sent away to be fostered. [8]  Doran then planned to tell Arianne about her betrothal and his plans to help restore the  Targaryens  to the Iron Throne when Arianne turned sixteen. However, he changed his mind over time, and kept the betrothal a secret from Arianne because he felt that she was too willful, and feared that if he told her, she would tell her cousins (particularly Tyene), and there would be no way to ensure the secret would remain a secret. [8] 
 When Arianne reached the age of marriage, Doran presented her with several suitors, all of whom were elderly lords (including  Ben Beesbury ,  Walder Frey ,  Gyles Rosby ,  Eldon Estermont , and  Hugh Grandison ), while rejecting an offer from Lord  Hoster Tully , who had invited Arianne to travel to  Riverrun  and meet his heir  Edmure . Arianne refused all of the elderly suitors, and asked to travel to  Highgarden  to meet  Willas Tyrell . When Doran refused, Arianne and Tyene tried to go on their own, but were intercepted by Prince Oberyn at  Vaith . Another time, when Lord  Renly Baratheon  visited Dorne, she attempted to seduce him, but he seemed confused by her attempts and she was not successful. [8]  Because of having read the letter to Quentyn, the insulting marriage candidates Doran presented her with, and Doran's apparent coolness towards her, Arianne became convinced her father hated her. [2]  In truth, Doran presented her with the elderly lords as suitors because he feared that it would be suspicious if he did not attempt to arrange a marriage for her, and because he knew that Arianne would refuse them (which she forcefully did [7] ), thus keeping her free to marry Viserys. [8] 
 During those years, Arianne also had suitors from Dorne. Her friend  Andrey Dalt  and his brother  Deziel  had both wanted to marry her, and her first lover, Daemon Sand, had even gone to Prince Doran to ask for her hand, though he was rejected. Arianne believed that her father did not wish for her to marry a Dornishman, and also realized that a  bastard  was not a worthy consort for a princess of  Dorne . While her friendship with Daemon was never the same after her father rejected his offer, Arianne took on multiple lovers over the years, including at least one of her childhood friends, as well as Ser  Gerold Dayne  of  High Hermitage . [2] [3] [7] [8] 
 Arianne had long been dissatisfied with her father and his style of rule, thinking him weak and vacillating. [8]  When her father moved to the  Water Gardens  in  298 AC , Arianne remained in  Sunspear . However, instead of being made the castellan, or given a position of power, she was put in charge of "feasts and frolics", while Prince Oberyn was given the highest place of power at Sunspear's court. While her uncle would visit Doran at the Water Gardens twice every fortnight, Arianne was summoned by her father only twice a year, which all further enforced her belief that her father did not want her as his heir. [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Princess Arianne Martell - by Katherine Dinger © 
 The death of  Viserys Targaryen  on the  Dothraki sea , commanded by his sister  Daenerys Targaryen 's husband, Khal  Drogo , [10]  puts an end  to the marriage plans  Prince  Doran Martell  had for Viserys and Arianne, and to his hope that his daughter would one day become Queen of the  Seven Kingdoms . [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 As part of an alliance  Tyrion Lannister  has struck between the  Iron Throne  and  House Martell , Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  is sent to  Dorne  as a ward, and to marry Prince  Trystane Martell  when she turns fourteen. [11]  She is accompanied by Ser  Arys Oakheart  of the  Kingsguard  as her  sworn shield . [11] [12] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  informs his son  Tyrion  that Ser  Arys Oakheart  has written in a letter that  Myrcella  and her betrothed  Trystane Martell  get on well and that Myrcella has taken a great liking to Princess Arianne. [13] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Arianne and Arys, by Magali Villeneuve© 
 With  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne , away at the  Water Gardens , it fell on Arianne to greet  Myrcella  and Ser  Arys  upon their arrival at Sunspear. [5]  Arianne tried to seduce the knight, but it took half a year before she was successful. [8]  Arianne drinks  moon tea  to avoid pregnancy. [5] 
 After the death of Prince  Oberyn  in  King's Landing ,  Dorne  is in uproar, with Oberyn's elder three bastard daughters,  Obara ,  Nymeria  and  Tyene , in particular arguing to avenge the Red Viper. Doran, who seemingly pursues a conciliatory approach, returns to  Sunspear  after having spent two years at the Water Gardens. Upon arrival in the city, he is greeted by Arianne, who has ordered a feast prepared in his honor. [4] 
 Unbeknownst to Doran, Arianne has learned that her brother,  Quentyn , has secretly traveled  across the narrow sea . Arianne fears that Lord  Anders Yronwood , Quentyn's current foster-father, is part of the plan to make Quentyn Doran's heir, displacing Arianne. When the  Golden Company  breaks its contract with  Myr , she fears that Quentyn might have hired them to rob her of her birthright, and that he has Doran's support. [5] [7] [8]  In addition, Doran has arrested the  Sand Snakes  (including the younger ones, but excluding  Sarella , who is absent from Dorne) in an apparent attempt to placate the  Iron Throne . [4] [5] 
 To fight the supposed challenge to her own birthright, to avenge Oberyn and  Elia , and to free her cousins, [7] [8]  Arianne puts into motion her scheme: she wants to crown Myrcella as Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, based on Dornish law—in which an older sister would inherit before a younger brother—thereby precipitating a war with the Iron Throne and Myrcella's brother, King  Tommen I Baratheon . Arianne also hopes that the  Dornishmen  will rally to this cause with the support of the released Sand Snakes. Arianne assumes this would make her the inevitable choice to replace her father, whom she wants to live out his days as captive at the Water Gardens together with her brother Quentyn. [5] [7] 
 During a tryst, Arianne manipulates Arys into aiding and abetting her plan, promising that Queen Myrcella would permit them to marry despite his  Kingsguard  vows. Arianne convinces Arys that they need to act before her father brings Myrcella from Sunspear to the Water Gardens. [5]  In truth, Arianne has no intention of marrying Arys, whom she likes but does not love. [3] [7] 
 Arianne assembles her closest friends as co-conspirators to help her implement her scheme:  Andrey Dalt , heir to his brother  Deziel , the Knight of  Lemonwood ;  Garin , an  orphan of the Greenblood ; and  Sylva Santagar , the heir of  House Santagar . She also recruits the fierce Ser  Gerold Dayne , known as Darkstar, although she does not trust him completely. Meanwhile, Arys has the task of smuggling Myrcella out of Sunspear, using a feigned illness of the princess and her lookalike bedmaid  Rosamund Lannister , as well as a stand-in for himself. Arianne and the others wait for Arys and Myrcella at the abandoned holdfast of  Shandystone . From there, Arianne plans to head out to the  Greenblood  and travel with an orphan poleboat westward on that river and  the Vaith , then continue by land. The final destination is to be  Hellholt , the seat of  Ellaria Sand 's father  Harmen Uller , where Arianne intends to crown Myrcella as Queen of the Seven Kingdoms and to raise her own banners. While waiting at Shandystone, Arianne grows increasingly wary of Darkstar, who dismisses her plan as unrealistic and alludes to killing Myrcella.
 
   Arianne Martell and  Arys Oakheart  - by Sacha Angel Diener 
 When Arianne's band arrives at the Greenblood, Prince Doran's captain of guards,  Areo Hotah , and a dozen guardsmen emerge from the poleboat. Arianne and Darkstar wish to yield, but Arys charges the guards and is killed by Areo's longaxe. While Arianne falls in desperation and nausea, Gerold Dayne seriously injures Myrcella (who loses an ear) then manages to escape Areo's men. While she is being arrested, Areo tells Arianne that someone betrayed her plans. [7] [8] 
 Prince Doran keeps his daughter isolated within the  Spear Tower  in the custody of  Ricasso  and Ser  Manfrey Martell . The pleasantly-appointed cell has history books, maps, and a  cyvasse  table, which Arianne does not utilize. She realizes that either Drey, Garin, or Spotted Sylva must have betrayed her, and that Arys died in a suicide charge, which he undertook to wipe out his shame about his relationship with her. Arianne is forbidden contact with the outside world and attended by servants who will not speak to her. Her attempt to send a message to Lord Uller is intercepted by Doran, after which Arianne begins a hunger strike. [8] 
 After several weeks, Arianne is brought before her father. Doran informs her that Ser  Balon Swann  of the  Kingsguard  is traveling towards Sunspear, and Arianne realizes that Doran needs her help to convince Myrcella to lie about what has transpired. When an angry Arianne reveals she had read the letter meant for Quentyn, Doran explains that the letter and his apparent inaction were part of a larger plan to avenge the deaths of Elia and her children at the  Sack of King's Landing . He reveals he had only offered Arianne elderly, unacceptable suitors because he had  secretly promised  her to another. This man  has died , however, and Quentyn is on a mission for vengeance and justice for House Martell. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Arianne is now aware of her father's plans. [14]  Doran had first intended to make her the queen of  Viserys Targaryen , with Quentyn succeeding Doran as  Prince of Dorne . [8]  With Viserys having died at  Vaes Dothrak , however, Doran now intends for Arianne to become Princess of Dorne, with Quentyn marrying Viserys's sister,  Daenerys Targaryen , now the Queen of  Meereen . [15] 
 At the feast welcoming Ser  Balon Swann  and his companions to  Sunspear , Arianne sits on the right side of her father, a place of high honor. Together with  Obara ,  Nymeria ,  Tyene , and  Ellaria Sand , as well as  Areo Hotah  and half the nobility of  Dorne , Arianne and Doran witness the delivery of the  Mountain's skull . [14] 
 Arianne flirts with Balon, but he is not as easily distracted or seduced from his duty as his sworn brother  Arys Oakheart  was. Arianne has convinced Myrcella to lie to Balon and claim that Arys was slain by Ser  Gerold Dayne . Doran has planned for them all to travel to the  Water Gardens , where Myrcella is staying, and where Balon can learn from Myrcella what Gerold has done. According to Doran's plan, Myrcella is to plead with Balon to bring Gerold to justice. After Doran reveals to the eldest three Sand Snakes what their respective roles in his plans will be, Arianne wishes them well, and remains with her father after they leave. Doran tells Arianne a fleet has taken to water from  Lys . [14] 
 Unbeknownst to the Martells, the fleet from Lys carries not Quentyn and Daenerys, but  Aegon Targaryen  and the  Golden Company , who  invade the stormlands . [16]  After having failed to marry Daenerys, Quentyn dies from  dragonfire  in Meereen. [17] [18] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Doran Martell receives a letter from Lord  Jon Connington , revealing the survival of Elia's son  Aegon Targaryen . Doran sends Arianne to discover the truth about Aegon and Jon. She travels with several companions, including her new sworn shield Ser  Daemon Sand ,  Joss Hood ,  Garibald Shells ,  Nate ,  Jayne Ladybright , and her cousin  Elia Sand . They visit  Ghost Hill  and take ship to the  stormlands . [3] 
 
 Quotes by Arianne 
 Arianne : Are you certain you are not off to some other bed, some other woman? Tell me who she is. I will fight her for you, bare-breasted, knife to knife. Unless she is a  Sand Snake . If so, we can share you. I love my cousins well. 
 Arys : You know I have no other woman. Only... duty. 
 
 Arianne : That poxy bitch? I know her. Dry as dust between the legs, and her kisses leave you bleeding. [5] 
  - Arianne and  Arys Oakheart 
 
 
 Do you see the white [star], Quentyn? That is  Nymeria 's star, burning bright, and that milky band behind her, those are  ten thousand ships . She burned as bright as any man, and so shall I. You will not rob me of my birthright! [7] 
 
 
 
 Anger was better than tears, better than grief, better than guilt. Someone told, someone she had trusted.  Arys Oakheart  had died because of that, slain by the traitor's whisper as much as by  the captain 's axe. The blood that had streamed down  Myrcella's  face, that was the betrayer's work as well. Someone told, someone she had loved. That was the cruelest cut of all. [8] 
  - thoughts of Arianne
 
 
 I was a foolish willful girl, playing at the game of thrones like a drunkard rolling dice. [3] 
  - thoughts of Arianne
 
 
 Pretty boys had ever been her weakness, particularly the ones who were dark and dangerous as well. [3] 
  - thoughts of Arianne
 Quotes about Arianne 
 Remember, she is  Dornish . In the  Reach  men said it was the food that made  Dornishmen  so hot-tempered and their women so wild and wanton. Fiery peppers and strange spices heat the blood, she cannot help herself. [5] 
 
 - thoughts of  Arys Oakheart 
 
 
 Myrcella  is the elder, and better suited to  the crown . Who will defend her rights if not her  Kingsguard ? My sword, my life, my honor, all belong to her ... and to you, my heart's delight. I swear, no man will steal your birthright whilst I still have the strength to lift a sword. I am yours. [5] 
  -  Arys Oakheart  to Arianne
 Family 
 
                                                                                     
     Princess of Dorne   Unknown           Lewyn           
                                                                                                                                                   
 Doran   Mellario   Mors   Olyvar   Elia   Rhaegar Targaryen         Various women   Oberyn   Ellaria Sand                 
                                                                                                                                                                                   
 Arianne   Quentyn   Trystane           Rhaenys Targaryen   Aegon Targaryen   Obara Sand     Tyene Sand     Elia Sand     Dorea Sand       
                                                                                           
                                                     Nymeria Sand   Sarella Sand   Obella Sand   Loreza Sand   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   See the  Arianne Martell  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Arianne Martell. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑  5.00   5.01   5.02   5.03   5.04   5.05   5.06   5.07   5.08   5.09   5.10   5.11   5.12   5.13   5.14   5.15   5.16   5.17   5.18   5.19     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 13 , The Soiled Knight. 
 
 ↑     A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying . 
 
 ↑  7.00   7.01   7.02   7.03   7.04   7.05   7.06   7.07   7.08   7.09   7.10   7.11   7.12   7.13     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 21 , The Queenmaker. 
 
 ↑  8.00   8.01   8.02   8.03   8.04   8.05   8.06   8.07   8.08   8.09   8.10   8.11   8.12   8.13   8.14   8.15   8.16   8.17   8.18   8.19   8.20     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 46 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 20 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 6 , The Merchant's Man. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 68 , The Dragontamer. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Arianne_Martell&oldid=218717 "  
 Categories :  House Martell Dornishmen Characters from Dorne Members of Arianne Martell's plot Noblewomen POV characters   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
