
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Arnolf Karstark 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Arnolf Karstark  
 Arnolf Karstark by Robert O'Leary 
 Alias 
Lord Arnolf Title 
Castellan of  Karhold Allegiance 
 House Karstark Culture 
 Northmen Born 
At  Karhold [1] Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) The Winds of Winter  (appears) 
   Arnolf Karstark - by Marc Fishman © 
 Arnolf Karstark  is the uncle of Lord  Rickard Karstark . He is the castellan of  Karhold , [2]  but the followers of  Stannis Baratheon  refer to him as  Lord Arnolf  as a courtesy.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 2.2   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   Quotes by Arnolf 
 5   Quotes about Arnolf 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Arnolf Karstark 
 Arnolf is gaunt, crooked, and bent from age, and he walks with a blackthorn cane. [3]  His left shoulder is half a foot higher then his right. Arnolf has a scrawny neck, squinty grey eyes, and is a few white hairs away from complete baldness. His teeth are yellow and his ragged, forked beard is grey and white. [4] [3]   Theon Greyjoy  considers Arnolf, whose grey woolen cloak is bordered in sable, to be "a poor excuse for a man". [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Arnolf became castellan of  Karhold  when Lord  Rickard Karstark  and his sons marched south with  Robb Stark  during the  War of the Five Kings . [6]  Rickard was eventually executed at  Riverrun  for treason by Robb, [7]  and his last surviving son,  Harrion , is a captive of the  Lannisters [3]  at  Maidenpool . [8]  After  Stannis Baratheon  sends a declaration of his arrival at  Castle Black  and a demand for fealty, Arnolf is the only  northerner  to respond favorably to him, pledging Stannis his support. [6]  Since  Jon Snow , the new  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , has rejected Stannis's offer of becoming Lord of  Winterfell , Stannis leans toward offering the castle to Arnolf. [9] [3] 
 Although  Theon Greyjoy  does not recognize them, Arnolf and  Hother Umber  are seated next to  Ramsay Bolton  during the feast held at the  Dreadfort  before Ramsay marches on  Moat Cailin . [4]  Arnolf writes to Stannis that the  Boltons  left the strong Dreadfort with only fifty men. However, Jon convinces Stannis to recruit the  northern mountain clans  and liberate  Deepwood Motte  from the  ironborn . [9] 
 At  Barrowton , Theon learns from Ramsay and his father, Lord  Roose Bolton  that Arnolf is conspiring against Stannis. Roose intends for Arnolf to betray Stannis when he marches on Winterfell. [10] 
 Alys Karstark , the daughter of the late Lord Rickard, flees from Karhold for the protection of Jon Snow at the  Wall . She reveals that Arnolf responded favorably to Stannis in hope that when the  Iron Throne  heard of the pledge they would execute her captive brother, Lord Harrion. Harry's death would make Alys the heir and Arnolf would then force her to marry his son,  Cregan , to claim Karhold. Roose has promised Arnolf a full pardon for this service to the Lannisters. [11]   Clydas  sends a  raven  to Deepwood on Jon's behalf in hopes of informing Stannis, and the Lord Commander has Cregan imprisoned when he tries to retrieve Alys from Castle Black. [12] 
 Arnolf has his army meet up with Stannis at a  crofters' village  during the king's  march on Winterfell , bringing four hundred spears, two score archers, a dozen mounted lances, and Maester  Tybald [5]  with a cage of  ravens . Ser  Justin Massey  is skeptical of the claims of Arnolf and his kin that Winterfell can be taken from the Boltons. [3] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Tycho Nestoris  brings Jon Snow's message from Deepwood to Stannis in time, and Tybald admits that he sent a raven with Stannis's location to Roose Bolton at Winterfell. Stannis has Arnolf, his son  Arthor , and three grandsons brought before him on the pretext of breaking their fast. Upon entering the village's watchtower, Arnolf notices the chained Theon Greyjoy in the corner and realizes that Stannis is aware of his planned treachery. [5] 
 Stannis's knights surround the five Karstarks; two of Arnolf's grandsons attempt to resist and are badly injured, but Arnolf does not put up a fight. Stannis vows that all five will die, but whether quickly or by fire will depend on their cooperation. [5] 
 
 Family 
 
                                                                                   
           Unknown Karstark   Unknown wife               Arnolf   Unknown wife         
                                                                               
               Rickard                   Cregan       Arthor   
                                                                                             
   Harrion   Torrhen   Eddard   Alys   Sigorn     Three Grandsons [13]   
     
 
 
 
 Quotes by Arnolf 
 Justin : You will not take  Winterfell ! 
 Arnolf : Aye, we will. We'll take it for  the Ned  and for  his daughter . Aye, and for the  Young Wolf  too, him who was  so cruelly slaughtered . Me and mine will show the way, if need be. I've said as much to  His Good Grace  the king. March, I said, and before the moon can turn, we'll all be bathing in the blood of  Freys  and  Boltons . 
 
 Justin : Your courage is admirable, Lord Karstark, but courage will not breach the walls of Winterfell. [3] 
  -  Justin Massey  and Arnolf
 Quotes about Arnolf 
 Homage is the duty every leal subject owes his king. Yet  your father's  bannermen all turn their back on me, save the  Karstarks . Is Arnolf Karstark the only man of honor in the  north ? [6] 
  -  Stannis Baratheon  to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Arnolf is rushing to  Winterfell , 'tis true, but only so he might put his dagger in your king's back. He cast his lot with  Roose Bolton  long ago ... for gold, the promise of a pardon, and poor  Harry's  head. Lord  Stannis  is marching to a slaughter. [11] 
  -  Alys Karstark  to  Jon Snow 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Arnolf Karstark. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 62 , The Sacrifice. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 12 , Reek I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3     The Winds of Winter ,  Chapter  ,  Theon I . 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 3 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 20 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 17 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 32 , Reek III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 44 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 49 , Jon X. 
 
 ↑   It is not known whether these are the sons of Cregan, or Arthor 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Arnolf_Karstark&oldid=218798 "  
 Categories :  House Karstark Castellans Characters from the North Nobles Spies Supporters of Stannis Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
