
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Arthur Dayne 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Arthur Dayne  
 Arthur Dayne with  Dawn , by Henning Ludvigsen ©. 
 Title 
 Ser Sword of the Morning Allegiance 
 House Dayne Kingsguard Culture 
 Dornishmen Born 
In or before  260 AC [1] Died 
In  283 AC , at the  tower of joy Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Luke Roberts TV series 
 Season 6 
 Ser  Arthur Dayne , known as the  Sword of the Morning , was a famed and legendary  knight  from  House Dayne  and a member of  Aerys II Targaryen 's  Kingsguard . Many considered him to have been the most chivalrous warrior of the  Seven Kingdoms . [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Luke Roberts  during a flashback in  Season 6 .
 Arthur was Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen 's closest friend. [3]  He was the brother of Lady  Ashara Dayne  and Lady  Allyria Dayne . His nephew, the son of Arthur's unknown older brother, is Lord  Edric Dayne . [4] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Arthur 
 5   Quotes about Arthur 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Character 
 See also:  Images of Arthur Dayne 
 According to  Catelyn Stark , Arthur was the deadliest of the seven knights of  Aerys II Targaryen 's  Kingsguard . [5]   Jaime Lannister , who idolized Arthur, [6]  recalls that Arthur was stronger than him. [7]   Jon Connington  considers Arthur to have been an efficient commander. [8] 
 
 History 
   Arthur Dayne dueling with  Eddard Stark 
 Arthur wielded the greatsword called  Dawn  as part of his office as  Sword of the Morning , carrying it slung across his back. [9]  To defeat the  Kingswood Brotherhood , he gained the trust of the  smallfolk  of the  kingswood  by paying for what he and his forces took and taking their grievances before King  Aerys II Targaryen . In the end Arthur slew the  Smiling Knight  in single combat and ended the threat of the outlaws. Following that victory, he knighted  Jaime Lannister , who would later become a sworn brother of the Kingsguard. [10] 
 Arthur was the champion in the  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  in  276 AC , defeating Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . [2]  Arthur broke twelve lances against Rhaegar in the  tourney at Storm's End , losing to the prince. [11]  At the  tourney at Harrenhal  in  281 AC , he was defeated by Rhaegar once again. [12] 
 According to a semi-canon source, [13]  Arthur, along with his other sworn brother Ser  Oswell Whent , aided Rhaegar in the kidnapping of  Lyanna Stark  near Harrenhal as the  year of the false spring  was ending. [14]   Robert's Rebellion  began shortly after.
 After the end of the rebellion, Arthur, Oswell, and Ser  Gerold Hightower  were found by Lord  Eddard Stark  at the  tower of joy . Arthur died there,  fighting Eddard and his companions , but the exact circumstances of his death are unclear. [9]   Bran Stark  recalls his father, Eddard, describing Arthur as the finest knight he ever saw and elaborating further that Arthur would have killed him if not for  Howland Reed . [15]  Stones from the tower were used to build his cairn upon a nearby ridge. [9] 
 Arthur is remembered as not only a skilled fighter but a valiant and  true knight . [6] [3] [15]  After Arthur's death, Eddard rode to  Starfall , the seat of  House Dayne , to return the sword  Dawn  to Arthur's sister, Lady  Ashara Dayne , [5]  as a sign of respect. [16] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lord  Eddard Stark  has a fever dream of Arthur, Ser  Oswell Whent , and Ser  Gerold Hightower  at the  tower of joy . [9] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Resting on a  weirwood  stump, Ser  Jaime Lannister  dreams of he and  Brienne of Tarth  being visited by the shades of Arthur, Oswell, Gerold, Ser  Jon Darry , Prince  Lewyn Martell , and Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  in the depths of  Casterly Rock . [17] 
 
 Quotes by Arthur 
   Ser Arthur Dayne, by Bella Bergolts ©. 
 Our  knees do not bend easily. [9] 
  – Arthur to  Eddard Stark  in Eddard's dream
 
 
 Arthur:  And now it begins.
 Eddard:  No. Now  it ends . [9] 
  – Arthur and  Eddard Stark  in Eddard's dream
 
 
 Brienne:  I swore an oath to keep him safe. I swore a holy oath. 
 Arthur:  We all swore oaths. [17] 
  –  Brienne of Tarth  and Arthur in  Jaime Lannister 's dream
 
 
 Smiling Knight:  It's that  white sword  of yours I want. 
 Arthur:  Then you shall have it, ser. [6] 
  – Arthur to the  Smiling Knight 
 
 
 All knights must bleed, Jaime. Blood is the seal of our devotion. [18] 
  – Arthur to  Jaime Lannister 
 Quotes about Arthur 
 They whispered of Ser Arthur Dayne, the  Sword of the Morning , deadliest of the seven knights of  Aerys 's  Kingsguard , and of how  their young lord  had slain him in single combat. [5] 
 
 –  Catelyn Stark  thinking of  Winterfell 's maids
 
 
 The finest knight I ever saw was Ser Arthur Dayne, who fought with a blade called  Dawn , forged from the heart of a fallen star. They called him the  Sword of the Morning , and he would have killed me but for  Howland Reed . [15] 
 
 –  Eddard Stark  to  Bran Stark 
 
 
 Arstan:   Myles Mooton  was Prince  Rhaegar's  squire, and  Richard Lonmouth  after him. When they won their spurs, he knighted them himself, and they remained his close companions. Young Lord  Connington  was dear to the prince as well, but his oldest friend was Arthur Dayne. 
 Daenerys:  The  Sword of the Morning !  Viserys  used to talk about his  wondrous white blade . He said Ser Arthur was the only knight in  the realm  who was our brother's peer. 
 
 Arstan:  It is not my place to question the words of Prince Viserys. [3] 
  –  Arstan Whitebeard  and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 And me, that boy I was ... when did he die, I wonder? When I donned the  white cloak ? When I opened  Aerys's  throat? That boy had wanted to be Ser Arthur Dayne, but someplace along the way he had become the  Smiling Knight  instead. [6] 
  – thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 I learned from the  White Bull  and  Barristan the Bold . I learned from Ser Arthur Dayne, the  Sword of the Morning , who could have slain all five of you with his left hand while he was taking a piss with the right. I learned from Prince  Lewyn of Dorne  and Ser  Oswell Whent  and Ser  Jonothor Darry , good men every one. [6] 
  –  Jaime Lannister  to  Loras Tyrell ,  Osmund Kettleblack ,  Balon Swann ,  Meryn Trant , and  Boros Blount 
 Family 
 
                                                                                 
     Lord Dayne   Arthur     Ashara   Allyria     Gerold   
                             
     Edric               
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Arthur Dayne  calculation 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 36 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 6 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3   9.4   9.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 30 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Rhaegar Targaryen. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 21 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , Dorne: The Andals Arrive. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Kingsguard  under  Aerys II Targaryen Lord Commander 
 Ser  Gerold Hightower 
 Members 
 Ser  Arthur Dayne 
 Ser  Oswell Whent 
 Ser  Jonothor Darry 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 Prince  Lewyn Martell 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister 
 Ser  Gwayne Gaunt 
 Ser  Harlan Grandison 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Arthur_Dayne&oldid=214706 "  
 Categories :  House Dayne Casualties of Robert's Rebellion Dornishmen Characters from Dorne Knights Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Members of the Kingsguard Nobles Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Swords of the Morning   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
