
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Español Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Aurane Waters 
 Aurane Waters, the Bastard of Driftmark - Fantasy Flight Games © 
 Alias 
Bastard of Driftmark Title 
 Grand admiral  ( master of ships ) Lord [1] Lord of the Waters [2] Allegiance 
 House Velaryon Race 
 Valyrian Culture 
 crownlands Born 
In  277 AC  or  278 AC [3] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appendix) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Aurane Waters , called the  Bastard of Driftmark , is a  bastard  member of  House Velaryon . [4]  He is the half brother of  Monford Velaryon ,  Lord of the Tides  and  Master of Driftmark . [5] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Clash of Kings 
 2.2   A Feast for Crows 
 2.3   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Aurane Waters 
 Aurane is handsome and thin, with silver-gold hair and grey-green eyes. He has a cleft in his chin and has a beard. [6]  His appearance reminds  Cersei Lannister  of  Rhaegar Targaryen , although Aurane's face is narrower. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Aurane is a scion of  House Velaryon  and fights for  Stannis Baratheon  during the  War of the Five Kings . After the  Battle of the Blackwater , Aurane is captured and bends the knee to King  Joffrey I Baratheon . [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Aurane is pardoned for fighting for Stannis and wins the favor of Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister , who believes that Aurane desires her. Cersei grants him the position of  grand admiral , formerly the  master of ships , on King  Tommen I Baratheon 's  small council . Since most of the  royal fleet  was destroyed at the Blackwater, Aurane receives funds to build a  small fleet of dromonds . [6]  Grand Maester  Pycelle  disagrees with Aurane's plan to captain the dromonds with younger men, rather than veterans of the Blackwater. [9] 
 Aurane tells Cersei that Ser  Loras Tyrell  was wounded during the  siege of Dragonstone . [10]  Cersei thinks Aurane covets  Dragonstone , as the lordship he has been granted does not include a seat of his own, but she feels  Rosby  would be more fitting for him. [1]  Because of increasing unrest in  King's Landing  after the arrest of Queen  Margaery Tyrell , Aurane tells Queen Cersei that he will launch her new dromonds on the  Blackwater Rush  to keep the peace and potentially prevent Lord  Mace Tyrell  from rescuing his daughter, Margaery. During her imprisonment by the  Faith of the Seven , Cersei is visited by  Qyburn , who tells the queen that Lord Waters fled the capital with the new ships after her arrest. [11] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 According to  Valena Toland , a new pirate king has set up on  Torturer's Deep  in the  Stepstones , styling himself the  Lord of the Waters . He commands three-decked warships. [2]  Some readers have theorized this to be Aurane Waters, with the title Lord of the Waters being a play on "Waters", the surname for noble  bastards  from the  crownlands  such as Aurane himself, and the traditional title for the head of  House Velaryon , " Lord of the Tides ".
 
 Family 
 
   Unknown woman   Unknown   Wife         
                             
       Aurane Waters   Monford   Unknown wife     
                                 
                   Monterys     
 
 
 
 Quotes 
 Jaime : There is talk that you mean to make Aurane Waters the  master of ships . 
 Cersei : Has someone been informing on me? Waters is well suited to the office. He has spent half his life on ships. 
 Jaime : Half his life? He cannot be more than twenty. 
 Cersei : Two-and-twenty, and what of it?  Father  was not even one-and-twenty when  Aerys Targaryen  named him  Hand . It is past time  Tommen  had some young men about him in place of all these wrinkled greybeards. Aurane is strong and vigorous. 
 
 Jaime :  Paxter Redwyne  would be a better choice. He commands  the largest fleet  in  Westeros . Aurane Waters could command a skiff, but only if you bought him one. [12] 
  -  Jaime Lannister  and  Cersei Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 ↑   See the  Aurane Waters  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Aurane Waters. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Aurane_Waters&oldid=218725 "  
 Categories :  House Velaryon Admirals Bastards Characters from the Crownlands Followers and collaborators of Cersei Lannister Masters of ships Pirates Supporters of Stannis Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Turncloaks in the War of the Five Kings Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
