Axell Florent Title  Ser Castellan of Dragonstone (formerly) Hand of the Queen (self-styled) Allegiance  House Florent Queen's men Book(s)  A Clash of Kings (appears) A Storm of Swords (appears) A Feast for Crows (appendix) A Dance with Dragons (appears)  Ser Axell Florent is a knight of House Florent who serves as the castellan of Dragonstone for his nephew-in-law Stannis Baratheon . [1] He is the younger brother of Lord Alester Florent . [2]   Contents   1  Appearance  2  History  3  Recent Events   3.1  A Clash of Kings  3.2  A Storm of Swords  3.3  A Feast for Crows  3.4  A Dance with Dragons    4  Quotes about Axell  5  Family  6  References    Appearance  See also: Images of Axell Florent  Axell is a homely and stout man, round with thick arms and bandy legs. He has the prominent ears for which House Florent is known. [3] His nose is broad, the eyes are close set and he has a double chin. The brows are beetled and both his nose and ears are hairy. [4] He wears russet and fox fur. [5]   History  Axell has been castellan of Dragonstone for ten years while Stannis Baratheon has been away in King's Landing serving on King Robert Baratheon 's small council . Axell replaced an unknown predecessor who served the previous five years. [3]   Recent Events   Ser Axell Florent on Dragonstone - Illustrated by Kristina Carrol. © Fantasy Flight Games.  A Clash of Kings  Ser Axell supports Stannis Baratheon 's claim to the Iron Throne . He emerges as the foremost of the queen's men and a fervent believer in R'hllor . Despite Axell being more courteous to Davos Seaworth than other lords supporting Stannis, Davos does not trust him because House Florent declares for Renly Baratheon . [3]  When Stannis sails for Storm's End , he leaves Axell behind on Dragonstone. [6]   A Storm of Swords  Ser Axell arrests Ser Davos Seaworth in Aegon's Garden when Davos plots to kill Melisandre . [7] Because Lord Ardrian Celtigar of Claw Isle abandoned Stannis after the Battle of the Blackwater , Axell urges Stannis to attack Claw Isle, put the island population to the sword, and loot the wealth rumored to reside there. He threatens Davos with an eventual murder should he disagree, yet Davos still argues in favour of sparing the people of Claw Isle, for which Stannis names him Hand, much to the chagrin of Axell.  A Feast for Crows  When Stannis goes north to the Wall , he leaves Ser Axell at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea with Stannis's wife, Selyse . [8]   A Dance with Dragons  Axell takes charge of the household of his niece Queen Selyse at Eastwatch. He uses the title Hand of the Queen . He accompanies Selyse to Castle Black after she sets out for the Nightfort . There he is to marry the eldest daughter of Gerrick Kingsblood .  