
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 This page is about the prince named "Baelor Targaryen". For other characters called "Baelor Targaryen", please see  Baelor Targaryen 
  Baelor Targaryen  
 Baelor Targaryen by Amok.  ©Roaring Studios© 
 Alias 
Baelor Breakspear The Hammer Title 
 Prince of Dragonstone Protector of the Realm Hand of the King Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Born 
In  170 AC [1] Died 
In  209 AC , at  Ashford Spouse 
 Jena Dondarrion Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) The Hedge Knight  (appears) The Sworn Sword  (mentioned) The Mystery Knight  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) 
   Baelor Targaryen by  Oznerol-1516 © 
 Prince  Baelor Targaryen , known as  Baelor Breakspear , was a prince of  House Targaryen  and was the eldest son and heir of King  Daeron II Targaryen  and  Mariah Martell . Named after King  Baelor I , [2]  Prince Baelor served as his father's  Hand of the King  from  196 AC  until his death in  209 AC .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character and Appearance 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   First Blackfyre Rebellion 
 2.3   Tourney at Ashford Meadow 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   References 
 
 
 Character and Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Baelor Targaryen 
 Prince Baelor had the dark hair of his  mother , a  Dornish  princess. He kept it cut short and kept his jaw clean-shaven. [3]  His nose had been broken twice. [3] 
 Baelor was a warrior, and seemed to be all that could be wished in a knight, lord, or heir. He was also a man who could win respect with ease, and was as open-handed and just as his father. [4] 
 However, too many men looked upon Baelor's dark hair and eyes and muttered that he was more Martell than Targaryen. [4]  Some  Blackfyre  sympathizers also were bothered by his namesake, "the  feeblest king  who ever sat the  Iron Throne ". [2] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
 Prince Baelor was born in  170 AC , the first child of King  Daeron II Targaryen  and  Mariah Martell . He won the name "Breakspear" in  187 AC  at the age of seventeen, following his famous victory at  Princess Daenerys 's wedding  tourney , where he defeated  Daemon Blackfyre  in the final tilt. [4] 
 
 First Blackfyre Rebellion 
 When the  First Blackfyre Rebellion  was in its early stages, Prince Baelor advocated leniency toward  Daemon Blackfyre , a position that was not favored over his uncle  Bloodraven's  hard line. Nonetheless, Baelor accepted the path towards war. He distinguished himself by leading the  Dornish  and  Stormlands  force which attacked the rearguard of the rebel army during the  Battle of the Redgrass Field  in  196 AC . Baelor's forces smashed the rebels against the shield-wall of his brother, Prince  Maekar , inspiring the song " The Hammer and Anvil ". After the battle, Baelor was named  Hand of the King  by his father and was recognized as a good Hand and "the soul of chivalry." [3]  At some point he was also given the title of Protector of the Realm.
 
 Tourney at Ashford Meadow 
 In  209 AC , at the  tourney at Ashford Meadow , Prince Baelor vouched for Ser  Duncan the Tall  because he knew Duncan's old master, Ser  Arlan of Pennytree . Baelor had jousted with Arlan in a tourney at  Storm's End  and had unhorsed him after breaking four lances. [3]  Due to Baelor's intervention Duncan was allowed to enter the lists.
 When Duncan attacked Prince  Aerion Brightfire  to defend an innocent  puppeteer , Baelor had a private word with Duncan and advised him. The next day Baelor sat together with Lord  Leo "Longthorn" Tyrell  and  Lord Ashford  in judgment of Duncan. Prince Aerion demanded a  trial of seven , which was granted. [3] 
 With the help of his squire,  Egg , and Ser  Raymun Fossoway , Duncan was able to recruit five men to fight for him. They needed one more, and because Baelor believed Duncan, he fought for him even though his nephew was the accuser. His brother, Maekar, was furious but Baelor said:
 
 This man protected the weak, as every  true knight  must, let the gods determine if he was right or wrong. [3] 
 
 Before the melee began, Baelor advised Dunk's champions to use tourney lances, which would strike before their opponents' shorter war lances in the opening tilt. He also noted that the three  Kingsguard   knights  on the opposing side would be sworn not to harm him, allowing him to safely engage them. Dunk's defending party won the trial, but Baelor had received a mortal blow to his head from his brother, Prince  Maekar , and died in Dunk's arms. Baelor was cremated at Ashford, per Targaryen funeral traditions. [3] 
 
 Family 
 Baelor married  Jena Dondarrion , with whom he had two sons,  Valarr  and  Matarys , [5]  both of whom died in the  Great Spring Sickness . [2]  Baelor's eldest brother,  Aerys I Targaryen , succeeded their father and was later succeeded by their youngest brother,  Maekar , who had dealt the blow that had killed Baelor. [6] [7] [2] 
 Baelor's son Valarr married  Kiera of Tyrosh . [5]  She gave birth twice, but both sons were stillborn. [8] 
 
 
                 Daeron II   Mariah Martell                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                       
 Baelor   Jena Dondarrion   Aerys I   Aelinor Penrose   Rhaegel   Alys Arryn   Maekar I   Dyanna Dayne                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 Valarr   Kiera of Tyrosh [9]   Matarys   Aelora   Aelor   Daenora   Aerion   Daeron   Kiera of Tyrosh [9]   Aemon   Daella   Aegon V   Rhae               
                                                                                                                     
     Sons                                   Maegor           Vaella               Unknown descendants   House Targaryen   Unknown descendants   
                                                                                                         
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Baelor Targaryen  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     The Sworn Sword . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6     The Hedge Knight . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Daeron II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     The World of Ice & Fire , Appendix: Targaryen Lineage. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys I. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Maekar I. 
 
 ↑     The Mystery Knight . 
 
 ↑   Kiera of Tyrosh was widowed when Valarr Targaryen died from the  Great Spring Sickness ; some time later she married his cousin Daeron. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Baelor_Targaryen_(son_of_Daeron_II)&oldid=205815 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen Nobles Characters from the Crownlands Hands of the King Veterans of the First Blackfyre Rebellion Protectors of the Realm Princes of Dragonstone Members of Baelor I Targaryen's court Members of Viserys II Targaryen's court Members of Aegon IV Targaryen's court Members of Daeron II Targaryen's court   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
