
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Balon Greyjoy 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
    Balon IX Greyjoy   
 Balon Greyjoy by Amok© Biographical Information Reign 
 289 AC  -  289 AC 299 AC  -  299 AC Full Name 
Balon Greyjoy, the Ninth of His Name Since the Grey King Alias 
Balon the Brave [1] Balon the Blessed [2] Balon the Twice Crowned [2] Balon the Widowmaker [3] The wet king [4] The kraken king [4] The iron king [1] Other Titles 
 Lord of the Iron Islands King of the Iron Islands King of the Isles and the North King of Salt and Rock Son of the Sea Wind Lord Reaper of Pyke The Greyjoy Captain of the  Great Kraken Born in 
or between  255 AC  and  261 AC [5] Died in 
 299 AC , at  Pyke Family Royal House 
 House Greyjoy Heir 
 Theon Greyjoy / Asha Greyjoy  (disputed) Successor 
 Euron Greyjoy Queen 
 Alannys Harlaw Issue 
 Rodrik Greyjoy Maron Greyjoy Asha Greyjoy Theon Greyjoy Father 
 Quellon Greyjoy References Books 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) Played by 
 Patrick Malahide TV series 
 Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 6 
 Balon Greyjoy  is the head of  House Greyjoy  of  Pyke  and is the  Lord of the Iron Islands . The captain of the  Great Kraken , [6]  he is a follower of the  Old Way  of the  ironborn  and desires to bring them back to prominence. In  289 AC  he proclaimed their independence from the  Iron Throne , but  Greyjoy's Rebellion  was defeated by King  Robert I Baratheon 's forces. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , Balon is played by  Patrick Malahide . [7] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Greyjoy's Rebellion 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Balon 
 5   Quotes about Balon 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 8   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Balon Greyjoy 
 Balon had always been thin, but by  299 AC  he is gaunt with a hard face. He has hard black eyes with long grey hair flecked with white that hangs past the small of his back. [6] 
 Balon has a personality to match his people: stubborn, fearless, and quarrelsome. He is uncompromising even when it comes to his own family, and his faith in the  Drowned God  and the  Old Way  is absolute. [8] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
 Balon is the eldest surviving son of  Quellon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands , and a lady of  House Sunderly . It is not clear when he was born.
 Balon learned to sail when still young and was a very skilled captain. Balon scaled the  Flint Cliffs  to the  Blind Lord 's haunted tower when he was ten. By his thirteenth year, he had become an expert oarsman. At fifteen he sailed with  Dagmer Cleftjaw  to the  Stepstones  on a reaving, killing his first man and taking his first two salt wives there. By seventeen he captained his own  longship . [1]  Later he often went raiding and was known for his fierceness and fearlessness.
 Balon and two of his brothers,  Euron  and  Victarion , wanted their father Quellon to join  Robert's Rebellion . Quellon was peaceful and cautious, however, and desired neutrality. After Crown Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  was slain in the  Battle of the Trident , Quellon was convinced by his sons to join the rebellion or else gain nothing from the war. The  ironmen 's contribution to the war turned out to be minimal. Quellon was slain fighting the longships of the  Shield Islands  in a  battle at the Mander , after which Balon brought the Greyjoy ships back to Pyke so he could claim the  Seastone Chair . [9] 
 When Balon returned to Pyke he found out his younger brother,  Urrigon , had died of gangrene after being injured in the  finger dance . The  maester  at  Pyke  had tried to save the hand of the boy, but his potions had failed and the fourteen-year-old Urrigon lost his life instead. Balon commanded the same treatment be used on the maester, who died along with Balon's stepmother. [1] 
 Balon is married to  Alannys Harlaw , who gave him three sons and a daughter:  Rodrik ,  Maron ,  Asha , and  Theon .
 
 Greyjoy's Rebellion 
 Main article:  Greyjoy's Rebellion 
 Lord  Quellon Greyjoy  had desired stronger ties with the  green lands , forbade most reaving, brought  maesters  to the Iron Islands, and outlawed the taking of  thralls . His son Balon, however, wished to return to the  Old Way , which he considered a better way for the  ironborn . After becoming  Lord of the Iron Islands , Balon reversed most of his father's reforms. Over five years he oversaw the construction of the  Iron Fleet  to serve the Seastone Chair. [9] 
 Balon was quick to seize the chance to revert to the ways of old when he thought that King  Robert I Baratheon 's recently-gained rule, through conquest, was unstable. Believing Robert would not have the support, the men, or the will to resist, Balon launched  his own rebellion  and declared himself  King of the Iron Islands .
 
   Balon kneels to  Robert I Baratheon  and  Eddard Stark . Screencap from  Game of Thrones  Blu-ray 
 The ironborn won early success when they  burned the Lannister fleet  at  Lannisport , but Balon's triumph was short lived. His eldest son,  Rodrik , died during the  storming of Seagard  and his fleet and forces were defeated, while his second son,  Maron , died while  defending Pyke .
 Balon was forced to accept defeat and bent the knee, re-swearing fealty to the  Baratheons , allowing his sole surviving son, ten-year-old  Theon , to be taken hostage by Lord  Eddard Stark  to  Winterfell . [6]  Balon and his wife, Alannys, grew apart after the deaths of Rodrik and Maron and the taking of Theon.
 In  297 AC  one of Balon's brothers,  Euron , seduced the  third wife  of another brother,  Victarion . To prevent bloodshed between the brothers Balon sent Euron into exile and swore he would be killed if he returned. To keep his honor Victarion killed his wife. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Main article:  War of the Five Kings 
   Balon Greyjoy's command - Tomasz Jedruszek © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Though defeated, Balon never gave up on his desire to become  King of the Iron Islands , and at the outbreak of the  War of the Five Kings  an opportunity presents itself. Balon assembles his fleet and orders all ships which visit the Iron Islands to remain so he will have the element of surprise. [10] 
 Robb Stark , the  King in the North , sends Balon's surviving son,  Theon , to  Pyke  as an envoy with an offer to ally with Balon against the  Lannisters . [6]  Insulted, Balon spurns the offer and instead declares himself  King of the Iron Islands . [11]  Balon sends his brother  Victarion , the  Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet , to capture  Moat Cailin . The ironborn's taking of the  Neck  cuts off Robb's army, which has been campaigning in the  riverlands  and the  westerlands , from the north. Balon sends his daughter and preferred heir,  Asha , to capture  Deepwood Motte . Theon,  Dagmer Cleftjaw , and Balon's brother  Aeron Damphair  are to  harry the Stony Shore . [12]  The ironborn forces are able to conquer a number of northern castles because most of their soldiers had left with Robb to fight in the south, and Balon styles himself  King of the Isles and the North . [13] 
 Theon deviates from Balon's plan by sending Dagmer against  Torrhen's Square . [14]  With Ser  Rodrik Cassel  drawn away from  Winterfell  by Dagmer, Theon  captures  the seat of  House Stark . [11]  Asha encourages Theon to abandon Winterfell because it is too far inland, but the youth insists upon remaining. [15]  Theon and Rodrik are both betrayed by  Ramsay Snow , who orders the  sack of Winterfell . [16] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   King Balon sitting on the  Seastone Chair  - by Amok © 
 Balon styles himself the Ninth of His Name Since the  Grey King ,  King of the Iron Islands and the North ,  King of Salt and Rock ,  Son of the Sea Wind , and  Lord Reaper of Pyke . [17] .
 In  King's Landing , the  small council  discusses Balon's terms of alliance instead of a pledge of fealty. Lords  Mace Tyrell  and  Paxter Redwyne  urge that these terms be accepted in order to free up new resources for dealing with  Stannis Baratheon . However, Tywin Lannister rejects them since Balon is already at war with  House Stark . [18] 
 Balon dies in a fall while crossing a bridge during a storm in  299 AC . [19] [20]  Some  portents  and the timely return of his exiled eldest brother,  Euron , lead to speculation that Balon may have been murdered by  an assassin  at Euron's command. [21] [22] [10] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 When  Aeron Greyjoy  is informed of his older brother's death, he thinks back to the last time he saw Balon upon returning from the  Stony Shore . Aeron Damphair recalls while Balon's grey hair had turned half-white and the stoop in his shoulder more pronounced, his king had not seemed ill. [1] 
 After Balon's death, his daughter,  Asha , and his brothers,  Victarion  and  Euron , are among the candidates to succeed him. [1] [10] [3]  His surviving son,  Theon , had been  taken prisoner  by the  Boltons  and is not able to press his claim. [16] [23]  Euron Crow's Eye returns to the Iron Islands the day after Balon's death, but his claim is vehemently opposed by Aeron. Balon's favored successor was Asha, but Aeron does not believe a woman can rule the ironborn. Aeron instead supports Victarion. [1] 
 The matter is decided during a  kingsmoot  at  Nagga's Hill  organized by the Damphair. [3]  Despite the efforts of Asha and Victarion, Euron is chosen as Balon's successor after he promises to conquer the whole of  Westeros  with the power of  dragons . [2] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Euron abandons Balon's conquests in the north, leaving the  ironborn  remaining there to fend for themselves. [24] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Euron admits to the captive Aeron that he was responsible for Balon's death, although he did not personally slay the king. [25] 
 
 Quotes by Balon 
   Balon standing near  Pyke  - by Amok © 
 Balon:  The pup says nothing about a reward. Only that you speak for him, and I am to listen, and give him my sails and swords, and in return he will give me a crown. He will give me a crown... 
 Theon:  A poor choice of words, what is meant is– 
 
 Balon:  What is meant is what is said. The boy will give me a crown. And what is given can be taken away. [6] 
 
 – Balon and  Theon Greyjoy , on  Robb Stark 's offer
 
 
 I am the Greyjoy,  Lord Reaper of Pyke ,  King of Salt and Rock ,  Son of the Sea Wind , and no man gives me a crown. I pay the  iron price . I will take my crown, as  Urron Redhand  did five thousand years ago. [6] 
  – Balon, to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Did  Ned Stark  dress you like that? Was it his pleasure to garb you in velvets and silks and make you his own sweet daughter? [6] 
  – Balon, to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 No man has ever died from bending his knee. He who kneels may rise again, blade in hand. He who will not kneel stays dead, stiff legs and all. [26] 
  – Balon, to  Asha Greyjoy 
 Quotes about Balon 
 Captain : The way I heard it in  Lordsport , there was a blow coming in from the west, rain and thunder, and old King Balon was crossing one of them bridges when the wind got hold of it and just tore the thing to pieces. He washed up two days later, all bloated and broken. Crabs ate his eyes, I hear. 
 Greatjon : King crabs, I hope, to sup upon such royal jelly, eh? [19] 
 
 – The captain of the  Myraham  and the  Greatjon , upon Balon's death
 
 
 My brother Balon made  us  great again, which earned the  Storm God 's wrath. He feasts now in the  Drowned God 's watery halls, with  mermaids  to attend his every want. It shall be for us who remain behind in this dry and dismal vale to finish his great work. [1] 
  –  Aeron Greyjoy , to  the Sparr ,  Steffarion Sparr , and  Gormond Goodbrother 
 
 
 A brave man but a bad lord. [10] 
  –  Asha Greyjoy 's thoughts
 Family 
 
 Lady of  House Stonetree                           Quellon                                           Lady of  House Piper                                                                         
                     Lady of  House Sunderly                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                   
 Harlon   Quenton   Donel   Balon   Alannys Harlaw   Euron "Crow's Eye"   Victarion   Urrigon   Aeron "Damphair"   Robin         
                                                                                                         
                 Rodrik   Maron   Asha   Theon                 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 1 , The Prophet. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 19 , The Drowned Man. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 18 , The Iron Captain. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 43 , Arya VIII. 
 
 ↑   See the  Balon Greyjoy  calculation 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5   6.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 11 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑   A Song of Ice and Fire Campaign Guide 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Iron Islands: The Old Way and the New. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 11 , The Kraken's Daughter. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 24 , Theon II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 37 , Theon III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 56 , Theon V. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 22 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  The Forsaken 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 42 , The King's Prize. 
 
 
 External links 
 Balon Greyjoy  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Balon_Greyjoy&oldid=218753 "  
 Categories :  House Greyjoy Ironborn Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Iron Islands Kings of the Iron Islands Kings of the Isles and the North Lords of the Iron Islands Monarchs Nobles Rebels Ship captains Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Characters killed by Euron Greyjoy   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
