
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Barbrey Dustin 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Barbrey Dustin  
 Barbrey Ryswell, by Delaney02© 
 Title 
Lady of  Barrowton Allegiance 
 House Ryswell House Dustin Culture 
 Northmen Born 
At  Rills [1] Spouse 
Lord  Willam Dustin Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) Personal Arms 
The spiked crown and crossed long axes of  House Dustin  quartered with the golden horse head of  House Ryswell 
 Barbrey Dustin  is the Lady of  Barrowton  as the widow of Lord  Willam Dustin . She was born into  House Ryswell  as the younger daughter of Lord  Rodrik Ryswell .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Barbrey 
 5   Quotes about Barbrey 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 8   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Barbrey is tall, unbent, and handsome. She has wrinkles around her mouth and eyes, and her hair is equal parts brown and grey. She wears her hair tied behind her head in a widow's knot. She usually dresses all in black, but she sometimes accentuates her attire with vair. [2] [3]  Her gown has a high stiff collar. [3] 
 While intelligent, Lady Dustin has grown into a bitter woman over the years. Her personal banner flying over the keep of  Barrow Hall  quarters the spiked crown and crossed long axes of  House Dustin  with the golden horse head of her father, Lord  Rodrik Ryswell . [2] 
 Barbrey is distrustful of  maesters  and refers to them as grey rats. [4] 
 
 History 
 Barbrey is the surviving daughter of  Rodrik Ryswell , Lord of the  Rills , and is the sister of  Roger ,  Rickard , and  Roose . Their sister was  Bethany , the late second wife of  Roose Bolton , Lord of the  Dreadfort . [2] 
 Brandon Stark , the eldest son of Lord  Rickard Stark , often rode the  Rills  while being fostered at  Barrowton  with old Lord  Dustin . Infatuated with the heir of  Winterfell , young Barbrey had an affair with Brandon, who took her  maidenhead . Lord Rodrik hoped to wed his daughter to a  Stark , but Lord Rickard betrothed his heir to  Catelyn Tully  of  Riverrun . Barbrey claims Brandon did not want to wed Catelyn [3]  and that the betrothal was the idea of  Walys , Rickard's  maester  at Winterfell. [4]  Rodrik then hoped to wed Barbrey to Brandon's younger brother,  Eddard Stark , but that was not to be. Barbrey instead wed  Willam Dustin , the young Lord of Barrowton. [3] 
 The abduction of  Lyanna Stark  by Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  led to the executions of Brandon and Lord Rickard Stark by King  Aerys II Targaryen  in  King's Landing . Now Lord of Winterfell, Eddard returned to the  north  to call his banners for  Robert's Rebellion . Not yet half a year into marriage, Willam rode off to war against Barbrey's objections. Barbrey gifted him with a fine red steed, the pride of her father's herd, and Willam swore he would return to her mounted on the horse. [3] 
 Willam attended the wedding of Eddard and Catelyn at Riverrun during the war, [5]  and he accompanied Lord Stark south after the  siege of Storm's End . Lord Dustin was slain in the  combat at the tower of joy , [6]  however, and Ned built cairns for the fallen. [7]  After the war ended, Lord Stark returned Willam's steed to Barbrey. She bears a grudge against Eddard, who brought the bones of his sister, Lyanna, to Winterfell for burial in its  crypt , but not the bones of her husband, Lord Dustin, to Barrowton. [3] 
 As her husband's widow, Barbrey continued to rule Barrowton in her own name. She was fond of her sister Bethany's son,  Domeric Bolton , who served at Barrowton for four years as her  page . [8] [2]  Since Domeric's death in  297 AC , Barbrey has nursed suspicions about  Ramsay Snow 's involvement. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Lady Barbrey sent a minimal number of soldiers from  Barrowton  to join the army of  Robb Stark , who was proclaimed  King in the North  and later killed in the  Red Wedding . [3] 
 Barbey is one of the signatories of the letters that  Ramsay Bolton  sends announcing that  Moat Cailin  has been retaken from the  ironborn . [9]  She hosts the  Boltons  at Barrowton, where the wedding of Ramsay to " Arya Stark ", actually  Jeyne Poole , is to occur. She cannot abide the presence of Ramsay and his  Bastard's Boys [10]  and forbids them from  Barrow Hall , as she suspects he had a hand in the death of her nephew,  Domeric Bolton . She gives grey colts to Ramsay's squires,  Big Walder  and  Little Walder Frey . [2] 
 When Lord  Roose Bolton  learns that  Stannis Baratheon  has left the  Wall , he decides to move Ramsay's wedding from Barrowton to  Winterfell . [2]  Barbrey insists on taking custody of "Arya" until the wedding occurs.  Theon Greyjoy , who travels in Lady Dustin's retinue to Winterfell, sits beside her at the wedding feast. Although Barbrey is astute and has good political savvy, she fails to see through Lord  Wyman Manderly 's behavior during the feast. She is offended by Wyman's apparent capitulation despite his son, Ser  Wendel Manderly , dying at the Red Wedding, and she dismisses Lord Manderly to Theon as craven to the bone—just after  Wyman serves his pies . [4]  Theon suspects that Barbrey is aware the bride is an imposter. [3] 
 Among the snowmen that squires build along the battlements of Winterfell, one is a snow lady resembling Barbrey. Lady Dustin has Theon lead her into the  crypts of Winterfell , where she explains much of her history and story to to him. Barbrey resents that Lord  Eddard Stark  returned the horse of her husband, Lord  Willam Dustin , but not his bones after  Robert's Rebellion . To spite Eddard's shade, Barbrey tells Theon that if Eddard's bones, which were heading north before Moat Cailin  fell to the ironborn , are discovered north of the  Neck  she will ensure they are never put to rest in the crypts. [3]  Barrowton is staunch for  House Bolton  largely because of this grievance. [2]  Before leaving the crypts, Barbrey and Theon discover that swords are missing from the tombs, including that of  Brandon Stark , her lover from her youth. [3] 
 As tensions arise in snow-bound Winterfell, Barbrey and her brother, Ser  Roger Ryswell , calm knights from  House Manderly  when Ser  Hosteen Frey  insults Lord Manderly. When Barbrey requests a more cheerful song than " The Winter Maid " during a meal,  Abel  sings " The Queen Took Off Her Sandal, the King Took Off His Crown " and " The Bear and the Maiden Fair ". While she appears to be loyal to House Bolton, Barbrey bears a grudge against  House Frey  due to the fact that several of her own men were killed at the Red Wedding. She points this out to Ser  Aenys Frey  when several suspicious deaths occur in Winterfell. [10]  She is absent when the Manderlys and Freys clash after the death of Little Walder and Theon escapes the castle. [11] 
 
 Quotes by Barbrey 
 If I were queen, the first thing I would do would be to kill all those  grey rats . [4] —Barbrey to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 
 Barbrey:   The bride  weeps ... Dressing her in grey and white serves no good if the girl is left to sob. The  Freys  might not care, but the  northmen  ... they fear  the Dreadfort , but they love the  Starks . Theon:  Not you. Barbrey:  Not me, but the rest, yes. Old  Whoresbane  is only here because the Freys hold the  Greatjon  captive. And do you imagine the  Hornwood  men have forgotten  the Bastard's  last marriage, and how  his lady wife  was left to starve, chewing her own fingers? What do you think passes through their heads when they hear the new bride weeping? Valiant  Ned's  precious little girl. Lady  Arya's  sobs do us more harm than all of Lord  Stannis's  swords and spears. [3] —Barbrey and  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 
 Barbrey : Why do you love the  Starks ? Theon : I ... I wanted to be one of them ... Barbrey : And never could. We have more in common than you know, my lord. [12] —Barbrey and  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 
 Barbrey : Lord  Wyman  is not the only one who lost kin at your  Red Wedding , Frey. Do you imagine  Whoresbane  loves you any better? If you did not hold the  Greatjon , he would pull out your entrails and make you eat them, as Lady  Hornwood  ate her fingers.  Flints ,  Cerwyns ,  Tallharts ,  Slates  ... they all had men with the  Young Wolf . Roger :  House Ryswell  too. Barbrey : Even  Dustins  out of  Barrowton . The  north  remembers, Frey. [10] —Barbrey and  Roger Ryswell  to  Aenys Frey 
 
 Quotes about Barbrey 
 Lady Barbrey is a woman who knows how to nurse a grievance. Be grateful for that. [2] — Roose Bolton  to  Ramsay Bolton 
 
 Family 
 
                       Rodrick   Unknown wife     
                                                                                                                         
   Bethany   Roose Bolton   Barbrey   Willam Dustin   Roger   Rickard   Roose       
             
       Domeric Bolton 
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Barbrey Dustin. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 32 , Reek III. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 41 , The Turncloak. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Willam Dustin. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Domeric Bolton. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 51 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Barbrey Dustin  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Barbrey_Dustin&oldid=215602 "  
 Categories :  House Ryswell House Dustin Characters from the North Noblewomen Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
