
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Barristan Selmy 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Barristan Selmy  
 Barristan Selmy, art by Mike Capprotti © 
 Alias 
Barristan the Bold [1] Barristan the Old [2] Arstan Whitebeard [3] Ser Grandfather [4] Old Ser [5] Lord Hand [6] Title 
 Ser Lord Commander of the Kingsguard  (former) Hand of the Queen Allegiance 
 House Selmy House Targaryen House Baratheon Kingsguard  (formerly) Queensguard Culture 
 Marcher [7] Born 
In  236 AC  or  237 AC [8] Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (POV) The Winds of Winter  (POV) 
 Played by 
 Ian McElhinney TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy , also called  Barristan the Bold , is a  knight  from  House Selmy  and the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard  of  Robert I Baratheon . [9]  A celebrated hero, he has served in the  Kingsguard  since a time when these knights were still considered to be the greatest of the  Seven Kingdoms . Barristan becomes a  POV character  in  A Dance with Dragons . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , he is played by  Ian McElhinney . [10] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Aerys II 
 2.3   Robert's Rebellion 
 2.4   Robert I 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Barristan 
 5   Quotes about Barristan 
 6   Entry in the White Book 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Barristan Selmy 
 Barristan is tall and has blue eyes which some consider to be sad. [11] [12]  He is an older man, with white hair and lined features. Some consider him handsome, at least for his age. [13] [14]  Despite his advanced age, Barristan looks strong and graceful and every bit the skilled  knight  he was in his youth. [15]  He is taller than Ser  Jorah Mormont  but less muscular. [11] 
 Barristan is considered one of the most skilled and respected  knights  in the  Seven Kingdoms , [1] [16]  considered to be made of the true steel that marks a  Kingsguard  knight. [17]   Bran Stark  believes him to be the greatest living knight. [1]  According to a semi-canon source, he is comparable in skill to the acclaimed Ser  Arthur Dayne , the  Sword of the Morning . [18] 
 A dutiful [19]  and gallant [20]  man, Barristan dislikes tricks [17]  and scheming. [7] [5] [6]  Some do not consider him cunning. [16]  Barristan can speak some of the  High Valyrian  of the  Free Cities [3] [21]  and the mongrel  Ghiscari  of  Slaver's Bay . [22] 
 Like other members of the Kingsguard, Barristan's plate armor, cloak, and shield are all in white. [23]  His enameled scales have silver chasings and clasps. [15]  He wields a longsword [5]  and a dagger. [7] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
   A young Barristan slaying  Maelys I Blackfyre  during the  War of the Ninepenny Kings , as depicted by Jose Daniel Cabrera Pena in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 Barristan was born the first son of Ser  Lyonel Selmy , the Knight of  Harvest Hall . He squired for Lord  Manfred Swann  in his youth. [24] [25]  At the age of ten, Barristan donned the armor of a  mystery knight  and entered a  tourney  at  Blackhaven . Prince  Duncan Targaryen  took pity on the small mystery knight while others laughed. Duncan jousted Barristan when no one else would and it was Duncan who gave Barristan his epithet. [26] [25] [22]  Barristan received his  knighthood  at the age of sixteen from King  Aegon V Targaryen  after unhorsing Prince Duncan and Ser  Duncan the Tall , the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , at a tourney in  King's Landing . [25] [7] 
 An eminently successful tourney knight throughout his career, Barristan also proved his worth on the battlefield. During the  War of the Ninepenny Kings  Barristan slew  Maelys I Blackfyre  in single combat, ending the male line of the  Blackfyre Pretenders . Barristan cut a bloody path through the  Golden Company  to reach Maelys. [25] [16] [5] [27]  The remaining members of the  Band of Nine  had little to no interest in conquering  Westeros , and soon returned to their own domains. Barristan's deeds during the war gained him undying fame and his name was well known throughout the  Seven Kingdoms  afterwards. [16] [27] 
 Barristan was named to the  Kingsguard  at the age of twenty-three and swore his vows before Ser  Gerold Hightower , while King  Jaehaerys II Targaryen  bestowed the white cloak on him. [7] [28]  In joining the Kingsguard, he gave up the claim to his family seat, and the girl he was to wed was married to his cousin instead. [23] [25] 
 
 Aerys II 
 Barristan continued to serve in the  Kingsguard  after Jaehaerys died and  Aerys II Targaryen  ascended the throne. In  277 AC , during the  Defiance of Duskendale , King Aerys had been held hostage inside of the town for half a year. Lord  Tywin Lannister ,  Hand of the King , was planning to storm  Duskendale , but Barristan offered to personally attempt to retrieve the captive Aerys himself. Tywin gave him a day. [29] [7] [30] [25] [5] 
 Disguised as a hooded beggar in the dead of night, Barristan climbed the walls of Duskendale, scaled the walls of the  Dun Fort , and slew a sentry before the man could raise the alarm. Barristan freed Aerys from the dungeon and led him to the upper levels. During the escape attempt, Barristan slew two guards and Ser  Symon Hollard , avenging the death of his sworn brother, Ser  Gwayne Gaunt , who had been killed by Symon. Barristan and Aerys rushed to the stables, with the knight fending off those who tried to intervene. Mounted on stolen horses, the pair charged out the Dun Fort's gate and escaped through the streets of Duskendale. [29] [25]  Barristan took an arrow to the chest during the rescue. [31]  Houses  Darklyn  and  Hollard  were destroyed by Aerys afterward, but the king acquiesced to Barristan's plea to spare the life of the child  Dontos Hollard . [30]  Many songs have since been sung of Barristan's deeds at Duskendale. [29] 
 When the band of outlaws known as the  Kingswood Brotherhood  caused problems, the king sent his Kingsguard on campaign in the  kingswood . Barristan rescued Lady  Jeyne Swann  and her septa, and he killed the bandits' leader, Ser  Simon Toyne , in single combat. [25]  During a  tourney at Storm's End , Barristan defeated Aerys's heir, Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen , in the final joust, winning the tourney. [31] 
 Barristan had greater difficulty keeping his vows in the later years of Aerys's reign, as the king became madder and crueler. [7]  Like his other sworn brothers of the Kingsguard, Barristan was present at the  tourney at Harrenhal . He was infatuated by the beautiful Lady  Ashara Dayne , though he knew nothing could come of his desire for her. Barristan planned on naming her  queen of love and beauty  if he won the tournament, but the knight was unhorsed by Rhaegar. [5]  The crown prince then crowned  Lyanna Stark , setting off a chain of events that led to  Robert's Rebellion . [32]  Barristan wonders if he could have averted the war if he had defeated Rhaegar in the tournament. He also fantasizes that, if he had won the tourney and crowned Ashara, perhaps she would have turned to him "instead of Stark." He thinks of the consequences of his unspoken love for Ashara as one of his many failures. [5] 
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 During  Robert's Rebellion , after the defeat of Lord  Jon Connington  at the  Battle of the Bells , Barristan and Ser  Jonothor Darry  of the Kingsguard were sent to rally the remnants of the loyalist army. [33] 
 Barristan fought in the  Battle of the Trident , during which he was wounded by arrow, spear, and sword [25]  while slaying a dozen friends of Lords  Robert Baratheon  and  Eddard Stark . [34]  Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  was killed by Robert in single combat in the  ruby ford . [35]  After the battle, Lord  Roose Bolton  counseled that Barristan's throat should be cut, but Robert instead called for his own  maester  to attend the knight. [34] [5] 
 Because he had been wounded so badly, Barristan was not present in  King's Landing  when the bodies of Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen 's children, Princess  Rhaenys  and Prince  Aegon —slain during  the Sack —were presented to Robert by Lord  Tywin Lannister . Barristan later felt that if he had been present and Robert had smiled at the bodies, nothing would have stopped him from killing the man. [5] 
 
 Robert I 
 Barristan considered seeking out Prince  Viserys Targaryen , but the exile was too young to rule on his own and had already begun showing signs of  Targaryen madness . [36]  Because the lives of Barristan and many others had chivalrously been spared during the war by the new king,  Robert I Baratheon , [36] [37]  Barristan instead took Robert's pardon and was named  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard .﻿﻿ [34] 
 Having already had reservations about Ser  Jaime Lannister  due to the youth's age and inexperience, Barristan did not approve of Robert allowing Jaime to continue his service after having killed King  Aerys II Targaryen  in the  Sack of King's Landing . Barristan was known to say that the Kingslayer's white cloak should be traded for a  black one . [38] 
 Jeor Mormont ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , knew Barristan when he was younger. [39]  During  Greyjoy's Rebellion , Barristan led the attack on  Old Wyk . [25]  He has remained a formidable fighter even in his advanced years, winning the championship of a tourney at King's Landing at the age of fifty-seven, and unhorsing  Sandor Clegane  in a tilt in the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day  in  297 AC . [40] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Barristan by Romain Leguay © Fantasy Flight Games 
 As the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , Barristan travels together with Lord  Renly Baratheon  and Ser  Ilyn Payne  to the  inn at the crossroads , to serve as an honor guard to the procession led by King  Robert I Baratheon  and his new  Hand of the King , Lord  Eddard Stark , on their way back to  King's Landing  from  Winterfell . [15]  He later accompanies the king during his travels through the city. [41] 
 During the  Hand's tourney , Barristan is defeated by Ser  Jaime Lannister  after three tilts, having defeated men thirty and forty years younger in his first two contests. [42]  When Ser  Hugh of the Vale  is killed in the tournament by Ser  Gregor Clegane , Barristan stands vigil over the young knight himself, as the boy had no one else. [17]  Barristan and Eddard advise Robert against participating in the melee. [17] 
 As Lord Commander, Barristan is present at the  small council  meeting when King Robert orders the death of the pregnant  Daenerys Targaryen , daughter to the late King  Aerys II Targaryen . He and Eddard are the only council members who protest the move. [34]  Barristan accompanies Robert on his hunt for a white hart in the  kingswood . [43]  The king is mortally wounded by a boar during the hunt, [44]  however, and Robert is succeeded by his eldest son, King  Joffrey I Baratheon . [45] 
 In an unprecedented move, as per Lord  Varys 's suggestion, Barristan is dismissed from the Kingsguard and the small council on grounds of old age, the implied accusation being that he did not keep King Robert safe. The  Lannisters'  motivations, however, are to allow Joffrey to give a white cloak to his "dog,"  Sandor Clegane , and to allow Queen  Cersei Lannister  to place her brother Jaime as the new Lord Commander with a seat on the small council. Outraged by his removal, Barristan throws down his sword and leaves the throne room. Joffrey orders the knight seized and questioned for a perceived threat uttered in the heat of his dismissal. Barristan enters the  White Sword Tower  to edit his  White Book  entry, dutifully recording his own dismissal. [25]   Janos Slynt  and three  gold cloaks  attempt to seize Barristan in the stables. Though he does not have his sword, Barristan kills two guards and flees the castle. [23] [46] [20] 
 While his kin at  Harvest Hall  would welcome Barristan back home, Barristan does not want to inflict Joffrey's displeasure on them. Instead, once outside of King's landing, Barristan sells his horse and disguises himself as a commoner, cloaked in his old age. He returns to the city in a stream of  smallfolk , pretending to be fleeing from the war. Having grown a long white beard, Barristan is present in the crowd when Eddard Stark is executed before the  Great Sept of Baelor . Following Lord Stark's death, Barristan goes to the sept to pray for Eddard's soul and thank the gods that he himself had only been dismissed. Reevaluating his years of service in Robert's Kingsguard, he admits that Robert had been a good  knight , but a poor king. Barristan decides that he must find his true king and die in his service. [20] 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  considers Barristan's dismissal a folly. While Barristan is old, he still commands enough respect to make him a threat in case he chooses to back  Stannis Baratheon  or  Robb Stark , and he cites it as one reason why he sends his son  Tyrion  as acting Hand to King's Landing to keep Joffrey better in check than Queen Cersei is capable of. [47] [46] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Barristan as Arstan Whitebeard, by Amok © 
 Renly Baratheon  declares himself king and hopes that Ser Barristan's announcement that he is going to serve the true king refers to him. Renly keeps a cloak in his  Rainbow Guard  ready for Barristan in case the old knight offers him his sword. When he concludes that his hopes have been futile, Renly gives Barristan's spot on his Kingsguard to  Brienne of Tarth , believing that Ser Barristan might have gone to  Riverrun  to support  Robb Stark  as king. [48]  However, Lady  Catelyn Stark  informs him that Barristan is not with Robb. Renly concludes that Barristan must have decided to support his brother  Stannis , and he orders his knights to spare Barristan's life if it comes to a battle with Stannis. [49] 
 Following his decision to find his true king,  Viserys Targaryen , Barristan crosses the  narrow sea  and travels to  Pentos . [20]  Barristan eventually ends up in contact with Magister  Illyrio Mopatis , and he learns of Viserys's death in  Vaes Dothrak . Illyrio sends Barristan, disguised as the old squire Arstan Whitebeard, alongside the huge eunuch  Belwas  to  Qarth  to bring Queen  Daenerys Targaryen  back to Pentos. [50] 
 Barristan and Strong Belwas sail east on the three ships of Captain  Groleo , which visit  New Ghis  before arriving at Qarth. [51]  They follow Daenerys and Ser  Jorah Mormont , who are trying to find passage on the ships docked at the  port of Qarth . Jorah notices them and becomes suspicious. When a  Sorrowful Man  attempts to assassinate Daenerys by presenting her with a box containing a  manticore , Barristan knocks the manticore from her hands and kills it. [50]  Barristan introduces himself as Arstan Whitebeard, and together with Belwas tell Daenerys that Illyrio had sent them to serve her, and bring her back to Pentos, as there were four kings in Westeros when they left Pentos, and no justice. [50] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Arstan Whitebeard kneels at  Daenerys Targaryen 's feet, by Sara K. Diesel © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Rather than sail to  Pentos , Daenerys chooses to sail on Groleo's ships to  Astapor  to buy  Unsullied . Barristan, still keeping his true identity a secret, discusses with Daenerys her  dragons , her father, King  Aerys II , and her brother, Prince  Rhaegar . Ser  Jorah Mormont  distrusts Barristan and Belwas, pointing out that Barristan speaks out too brazenly for a mere squire. [11] 
 Barristan is with Daenerys in the  Plaza of Pride  when they meet with  Kraznys mo Nakloz , the  Good Master  selling Unsullied. Barristan disapproves of buying  slaves , and when Daenerys asks how she is to win  Westeros  without an army, he replies that half of Westeros would support her because of Rhaegar. When she asks about her father, however, Barristan has little positive to say. He advises Daenerys that she should send envoys, and that even those that opposed her father might support her. [52]  He also objects to Daenerys's plan to pay for the Unsullied with one of her dragons, but she  conquers Astapor  by ordering her new Unsullied to attack the slavers, [53]  after which she frees them from slavery.
 When Daenerys announces her plan to take  Yunkai , Barristan agrees with Jorah that she is Rhaegar's sister, adding that she is also a queen. While waiting for the results of the  battle near Yunkai , Barristan and Daenerys discuss Rhaegar, the  tourney at Harrenhal , and  Summerhall . [31] 
 During the  siege of Meereen ,  Oznak zo Pahl  rides out of the city on a white charger with a fourteen-foot lance, challenging the besiegers to send forth a champion. Barristan tells Daenerys that this challenge must be met, after which Daenerys decides that  Belwas  is the best choice. [31] 
 Daenerys later decides that she will ride out amongst her people with only a limited guard. She is attacked by  Mero , the former commander of the  Second Sons , but Barristan easily dispatches him. The sellsword falls into the water and the freemen fall on his body. [24]  Daenerys wishes that Baristan be knighted in gratitude, but both Barristan and Jorah Mormont refuse this at the same time. Jorah, highly suspicious, questions how an old squire with a stick could have been capable of killing Mero, the Titan's Bastard, and asks Barristan who he is, to which Barristan replies "a better  knight  than you, ser". [24] 
 Barristan begs forgiveness from Daenerys for withholding truths from her. Jorah recognizes Barristan and informs Daenerys that Barristan had betrayed  House Targaryen  to serve  Robert I Baratheon . Barristan tells her that he is hers, if she will have him. He also explains he took Robert's pardon and served with men not worthy of a place in the Kingsguard, and that, when  Joffrey Baratheon  dismissed him aside and sent men to kill him, he realized that he had to find his true king. Barristan tells Daenerys he kept his identity a secret because he wanted to prevent the Lannisters from learning he had joined her. When Barristan insinuates that Jorah has been spying on Daenerys for  Varys  since her wedding to  Drogo , Jorah affirms the accusation is true. [24] 
 Daenerys captures Meereen by having Barristan, Jorah, and Belwas infiltrate the city through the sewers and release slaves. Afterward, Barristan shaves his beard and looks ten years younger. Daenerys reveals she had hoped that they would die in the sewers. Barristan admits he had kept his identity hidden to be certain that she did not have the  taint of madness  like her father had. Barristan tells the queen that her brother,  Viserys , had more of the taint of her father, the Mad King. Rhaegar did not, and he sees no taint in her. He further tells her that he will do whatever she asks, and if she will not have him he would continue to serve Belwas. Daenerys accepts him in her service, and Barristan receives a sword from her, refusing to take one from anyone else. In contrast, Jorah is exiled from Meereen. [36] 
 Daenerys realizes that Barristan had personally known her grandfather, King  Jaehaerys II , and he could tell her more about where she came from. After he has been pardoned, Barristan tells Daenerys that her father's secrets, which he had overheard as a Kingsguard knight, now by rights belong to her. He explains that Aerys had not been mad initially, but that his lapses became worse over time, while her mother, Queen  Rhaella , did her best to shield Viserys from his father's insanity. Daenerys decides she does not want to hear it at that moment, but that he should tell her more some other time. Barristan is among her advisors when she states she will not leave but stay and rule as a queen in Meereen. [36] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Daenerys names Barristan the Lord Commander of her  Queensguard [54]  and gives him new gold-and-silver armor. [13]  The mail is gilded and finely wrought, with supple links and hard enamel plates. His longsword hangs from a white leather belt with golden buckles, and he also wields a dagger. [5]  Barristan wears a long white cloak about his shoulders and carries a white shield. [14]  His helm has a narrow eye slit and ornate dragon's wings. [5]  His horse is a dapple grey. [13] 
 Barristan attempts to lead his queen down an honorable path towards the safety of  Meereen . Barristan distrusts Daenerys's paramour,  Daario Naharis , and he unsuccessfully suggests holding a  tourney . [20]   Groleo  and Barristan inspect the ships brought to Meereen by  Xaro Xhoan Daxos . Daenerys rejects Barristan's advice to leave Meereen for  Westeros . [55] 
 Grazhar instructs  Grazhar zo Galare  and other  other noble boys  in western chivalry. [56]  The Lord Commander also begins training more than sixty freed  slaves , with thirty of them persevering. [7]  The most promising of them become Barristan's squires, including  Tumco Lho ,  Larraq , the  Red Lamb , and three  Ghiscari  brothers. [5] [57] 
 When  Yunkai  marches on Meereen,  Skahaz mo Kandaq  advises Daenerys to remain within Meereen's strong walls while Barristan suggests defeating the Yunkai'i in the field. Selmy objects to allowing into Meereen refugees from  Astapor , because of the danger of the  bloody flux , [12]  and the knight also objects when Daenerys meets the refugees outside of the walls. [4]  The Lord Commander does not approve of Daenerys wedding  Hizdahr zo Loraq , since the man would not be accepted in the  Seven Kingdoms . [56]  Barristan is supportive of  Quentyn Martell  when the prince informs Daenerys of the  secret marriage pact , but Daenerys weds Hizdahr instead of Quentyn to ensure temporary peace within Meereen. [13] 
 When  Drogon  begins attacking people in  Daznak's Pit , Barristan tries to protect Daenerys by drawing the  dragon 's attention to himself. The queen ends up fleeing Meereen atop Drogon. [14] 
 
   Barristan and the  Brazen Beasts  by Urukki Saki © 
 After Daenerys's departure, Hizdahr replaces the royal advisors, but Barristan meets with Skahaz and  Grey Worm . [7]  He is present when  Bloodbeard  presents the court with the head of Groleo, who was slain in response to the death of  Yurkhaz zo Yunzak . Barristan is enraged and wants to kill Bloodbeard, but stops because the act would break his queen's peace. Barristan advises Quentyn and his companions to leave Meereen for their own safety, [22]  but the  Dornishmen  remain in the city. [58] 
 Convinced that Hizdahr had attempted to assassinate Daenerys with  poisoned locusts , [22]  Barristan decides to work with Grey Worm and Skahaz, despite his loathing of the latter and his own inhibitions about making decisions of state in the absence of his queen. [7]  Barristan leads with honor and refuses Skahaz's suggestion to kill the Ghiscari  cupbearers , the children of powerful Meereenese nobles. Barristan and the  Brazen Beasts  plan to take King Hizdahr hostage, but he fears that if Hizdahr is harmed the Yunkai'i will kill their remaining hostages—Daario,  Jhogo  and  Hero —just as they killed Groleo. When Barristan goes to capture Hizdahr, he slays the king's protector, the formidable pit fighter  Khrazz . [5]  Meanwhile, Quentyn attempts to tame one of dragons, but  Rhaegal  and  Viserion  break free from their imprisonment and Quentyn is mortally wounded by  dragonflame . [59] [6] 
 Barristan assumes the title of  Hand , sending a reluctant  Galazza Galare  an envoy to the Yunkai'i and preventing Skahaz from executing hostages. Barristan refuses to hold court, instead holding a council session which plans for battle with Yunkai. A beacon system will be used to call the attack should the fragile peace between the sides be broken. [6]  Barristan discretely meets with Ser  Gerris Drinkwater  and Ser  Archibald Yronwood , the late Quentyn's companions. Tasking them with speaking on his behalf with the  Tattered Prince , Barristan offers to grant  Pentos  to the sellsword captain if he protects the remaining hostages in the Yunkish camp. [6]  During a meeting between Barristan and Galazza after she returns, Skahaz notifies Barristan that the  Yunkish catapults  are flinging corpses infected with the  pale mare  into the city. [6] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 The Yunkish threat in the  second siege of Meereen  has been augmented by the presence of the  bloody flux . Ser Barristan notes that under normal circumstances, he would defend Meereen from behind its strong walls. However, because the Yunkish introduced the pale mare into Meereen by catapulting infected corpses over the walls, he resolves to ride out and meet his enemy on the field rather than watch the impending outbreak annihilate Meereen. On the eve of the offensive, he gives a pep talk to his newly anointed knights and soldiers. When his talk is interrupted by the arrival of dawn, Barristan orders the  Red Lamb  to "sound the attack". [60] 
 
 Quotes by Barristan 
   Ian McElhinney  as Barristan in  Game of Thrones . 
 Varys : We are not unmindful of your service, good ser. Lord  Tywin Lannister  has generously agreed to grant you a handsome tract of land north of  Lannisport , beside  the sea , with gold and men sufficient to build you a stout keep, and servants to see to your every need. Barristan : A hall to die in, and men to bury me. I thank you, my lords, but I spit on your pity ... I am a  knight . I shall die a knight. [23] — Varys  and Barristan 
 
 
 
 Have no fear, sers, your king is safe... no thanks to you. Even now, I could cut through the five of you as easy as a dagger cuts cheese. If you would serve under the  Kingslayer , not a one of you is fit to wear the white. Here,  boy . Melt it down and  add it to the others , if you like. It will do you more good than the swords in the hands of these five. Perhaps Lord  Stannis  will chance to sit on it when he takes your throne. [23] —Barristan denouncing his former  sworn brothers 
 
 
 
 I took  Robert's  pardon, aye. I served him in  Kingsguard  and  council . Served with the  Kingslayer  and others near as bad, who soiled the white cloak I wore. Nothing will excuse that. I might be serving in  King's Landing  still if the  vile boy  upon the  Iron Throne  had not cast me aside, it shames me to admit. But when he took the cloak the  White Bull  had draped about my shoulders, and sent men to kill me that selfsame day, it was as though he'd ripped a caul off my eyes. That was when I knew I must find my true king, and die in his service... [24] —Barristan to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 
 Daenerys : Can we win  this fight ? Barristan : Men can always fight, Your Grace. Ask rather if we can win. Dying is easy, but victory comes hard. [12] — Daenerys Targaryen  and Barristan 
 
 
 
 Duskendale  had been his finest hour, yet the memory tasted bitter on his tongue. It was his failures that haunted him at night, though.  Jaehaerys ,  Aerys ,  Robert . Three dead kings.  Rhaegar , who would have been a finer king than any of them. Princess  Elia  and the children.  Aegon  just a babe,  Rhaenys  with  her kitten . Dead, every one, yet he still lived, who had sworn to protect them. [7] —thoughts of Barristan 
 
 
 
 Prince  Rhaegar  loved his Lady  Lyanna  and  thousands died for it .  Daemon Blackfyre  loved the  first Daenerys , and rose in  rebellion  when denied her.  Bittersteel  and  Bloodraven  both loved  Shiera Seastar  and the  Seven Kingdoms  bled. The  Prince of Dragonflies  loved  Jenny of Oldstones  so much he cast aside a crown, and  Westeros  paid the bride price in corpses. All three of the sons of the  fifth Aegon  had wed for love in defiance of their father's wishes. And because that unlikely monarch had followed his heart when he chose  his queen , he allowed his sons to have their way, making bitter enemies when he might have made fast friends. Treason and turmoil followed, as night follows day, ending at  Summerhall  in  sorcery, fire and grief . [5] —thoughts of Barristan 
 
 
 
 I am no  Hand , a part of him wanted to cry out. I am only a simple  knight ,  the queen's  protector. I never wanted this. But with the queen gone and  the king  in chains, someone had to rule, and Ser Barristan did not trust the  Shavepate . [6] } —thoughts of Barristan 
 
 
 
 I am an old man, an old  knight , and I have seen more battles than most of you have years. Nothing is more terrible upon this earth, nothing more glorious, nothing more absurd. You may retch. You will not be the first. You may drop your sword, your shield, your lance. Others have done the same. Pick it up and go on fighting. You may foul your breeches. I did, in my first battle. No one will care. All battlefields smell of shit. You may cry out for your mother, pray to gods you thought you had forgotten, howl obscenities that you never dreamed could pass your lips. All this has happened too. [60] —Barristan addressing his men in the  second siege of Meereen 
 
 Quotes about Barristan 
 Sansa : Even in the far  north , the singers praise the deeds of Barristan the Bold. Renly : Barristan the Old, you mean. Don't flatter him too sweetly, child, he thinks overmuch of himself already. [15] — Sansa Stark  and  Renly Baratheon 
 
 
 
 Eddard : Ser Barristan is as valiant and honorable as any man in  King's Landing . Petyr : And as tiresome. [61] — Eddard Stark  and  Petyr Baelish 
 
 
 
 Of these seven, only Ser Barristan Selmy is made of the true steel. [17] — Varys  to  Eddard Stark  regarding  Robert I Baratheon 's  Kingsguard 
 
 
 
 And dismissing Selmy, where was the sense in that? Yes, the man was old, but the name of Barristan the Bold still has meaning in  the realm . He lent honor to any man he served. Can anyone say the same of the  Hound [47] — Tywin Lannister  to  Tyrion Lannister  after learning of Barristan's dismissal from the  Kingsguard 
 
 
 
 The  smallfolk  talk of him the same way they talk of  Serwyn of the Mirror Shield  and Prince  Aemon the Dragonknight . [46] — Tyrion Lannister  to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 
 He has a good face, and great strength to him. [52] —thoughts of  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 
 I saw him perhaps a dozen times ... from afar, most often, standing with his brothers or riding in some  tourney . But every man in the  Seven Kingdoms  knows Barristan the Bold ... Khaleesi, before you kneels Ser Barristan Selmy,  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , who betrayed  your House  to serve the  Usurper   Robert Baratheon . [24] — Jorah Mormont  to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 
 I learned from the  White Bull  and Barristan the Bold. I learned from Ser  Arthur Dayne , the  Sword of the Morning , who could have slain all five of you with his left hand while he was taking a piss with the right. I learned from Prince  Lewyn of Dorne  and Ser  Oswell Whent  and Ser  Jonothor Darry , good men every one. [25] — Jaime Lannister  to  Loras Tyrell ,  Osmund Kettleblack ,  Balon Swann ,  Meryn Trant , and  Boros Blount 
 
 
 
 Ser Barristan is a  valiant knight and true ; but none, I think, has ever called him cunning. [62] — Illyrio Mopatis  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 
 We should be heeding Selmy. When Barristan the Bold tells you to run, a wise man laces up his boots. [58] — Gerris Drinkwater  to  Quentyn Martell 
 
 
 
 Queen's Hand . An old woman's hand, I am thinking, wrinkled and feeble. [6] — Skahaz mo Kandaq  to Barristan 
 
 Entry in the White Book 
 Ser Barristan of  House Selmy . Firstborn son of Ser  Lyonel Selmy  of  Harvest Hall . Served as squire to Ser  Manfred Swann . Named "the Bold" in his 10th year, when he donned borrowed armor to appear as a  mystery knight  in the  tourney  of  Blackhaven , where he was defeated and unmasked by  Duncan, Prince of Dragonflies .  Knighted  in his 16th year by King  Aegon V Targaryen , after performing great feats of prowess as a mystery knight in the winter tourney at  King's Landing , defeating Prince Duncan the small and Ser  Duncan the Tall ,  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard . Slew  Maelys the Monstrous , last of the  Blackfyre Pretenders , in single combat during the  War of the Ninepenny Kings . Defeated  Lormelle Long Lance  and  Cedrik Storm , the Bastard of  Bronzegate . Named to the  Kingsguard  in his 23rd year, by Lord Commander Ser  Gerold Hightower . Defended the passage against all challengers in the tourney of the  Silver Bridge . Victor in the mêlée at  Maidenpool . Brought King  Aerys II  to safety during the  Defiance of Duskendale  despite an arrow wound in the chest. Avenged the murder of his Sworn Brother, Ser  Gwayne Gaunt . Rescued Lady  Jeyne Swann  and her  septa  from the  Kingswood Brotherhood , defeating  Simon Toyne  and the  Smiling Knight , slaying the former. In the  Oldtown  tourney, defeated and unmasked the mystery knight,  Blackshield  revealing him to be the Bastard of  Uplands . Sole champion of Lord  Steffon's   tourney at Storm's End , whereat he unhorsed Lord  Robert Baratheon , Prince  Oberyn Martell , Lord  Leyton Hightower , Lord  Jon Connington , Lord  Jason Mallister , and Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . Wounded by arrow, spear, and sword at the  Battle of the Trident  whilst fighting beside his Sworn Brothers and Rhaegar  Prince of Dragonstone . Pardoned, and named Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, by King Robert I Baratheon. Served in the honor guard that brought Lady  Cersei  of  House Lannister  to King's Landing to wed King Robert. Led the attack on  Old Wyk  during  Balon Greyjoy's Rebellion . Champion of the tourney at King's Landing, in his 57th year. Dismissed by King  Joffrey I Baratheon  in his 61st year, for reasons of advanced age. [25] 
  – the achievements of Barristan as recorded in the  White Book  by  Gerold Hightower  and Barristan himself
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 15 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  5.00   5.01   5.02   5.03   5.04   5.05   5.06   5.07   5.08   5.09   5.10   5.11   5.12   5.13     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5   6.6   6.7     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 ↑  7.00   7.01   7.02   7.03   7.04   7.05   7.06   7.07   7.08   7.09   7.10     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑   See the  Barristan Selmy  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2   13.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2   16.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 5 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2   17.3   17.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  The Sword of the Morning vs. Barristan the Bold , September 02, 2011 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2   20.3   20.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 22 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1   22.2   22.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1   23.2   23.3   23.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑  24.0   24.1   24.2   24.3   24.4   24.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  25.00   25.01   25.02   25.03   25.04   25.05   25.06   25.07   25.08   25.09   25.10   25.11   25.12     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  27.0   27.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Jaehaerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 48 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑  29.0   29.1   29.2     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 9 , Brienne II. 
 
 ↑  31.0   31.1   31.2   31.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑  34.0   34.1   34.2   34.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 ↑  36.0   36.1   36.2   36.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: Robert's Rebellion. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 57 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 52 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 25 , Eddard V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 20 , Eddard IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 ↑  46.0   46.1   46.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 3 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  47.0   47.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑  50.0   50.1   50.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 64 , Arya X. 
 
 ↑     The Lands of Ice and Fire , Journeys. 
 
 ↑  52.0   52.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 16 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  56.0   56.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  58.0   58.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 60 , The Spurned Suitor. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 68 , The Dragontamer. 
 
 ↑  60.0   60.1   The Winds of Winter ,  Barristan I 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 14 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 v d e 
Known  Lords Commander of the Kingsguard Lords Commander to the  Iron Throne 
 Ser  Corlys Velaryon 
 Ser  Criston Cole 
 Ser  Alyn Connington 
 Demon of Darry 
 Ser  Robert Flowers 
 Ser  Gerold Hightower 
 Ser  Addison Hill 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister 
 Ser  Ryam Redwyne 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 Ser  Duncan the Tall 
 Prince  Aemon Targaryen 
 Ser  Harrold Westerling 
 Lords Commander to rival claimants 
 Ser  Steffon Darklyn 
 Ser  Lorent Marbrand 
 Ser  Glendon Goode 
 Ser  Loras Tyrell 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 
 v d e 
 Kingsguard  during  A Song of Ice and Fire Current 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister 
 Ser  Meryn Trant 
 Ser  Boros Blount 
 Ser  Balon Swann 
 Ser  Osmund Kettleblack 
 Ser  Loras Tyrell 
 Ser  Robert Strong 
 Former 
 Ser  Arys Oakheart 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 Ser  Mandon Moore 
 Ser  Preston Greenfield 
 Sandor Clegane 
 
 v d e 
 Kingsguard  under  Aerys II Targaryen Lord Commander 
 Ser  Gerold Hightower 
 Members 
 Ser  Arthur Dayne 
 Ser  Oswell Whent 
 Ser  Jonothor Darry 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 Prince  Lewyn Martell 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister 
 Ser  Gwayne Gaunt 
 Ser  Harlan Grandison 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Barristan_Selmy&oldid=218716 "  
 Categories :  House Selmy Characters from the Stormlands Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Exiles Hands of the King Knights Lords Commander of the Kingsguard Members of the Kingsguard Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Members of Robert Baratheon's court Mystery knights Nobles POV characters Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Ruling council of Meereen Squires Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of the War of the Ninepenny Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
