
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Belwas 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Belwas 
 Strong Belwas by  David Sondered  - FFG © 
 Alias 
Strong Belwas Belwas the Strong Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Queensguard Ruling council of Meereen Culture 
 Meereenese Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Belwas , more commonly known as  Strong Belwas , is a tanned  eunuch  colossus. His nickname comes from the arenas of  Meereen  where he used to fight. [1]  He claims he never lost a fight and he allows his opponents to cut him once before they die.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Belwas 
 Belwas's skin is nut-brown. He has gapped teeth, a gleaming bald head, the smooth cheeks of a eunuch, a huge chest, a massive belly, and Daenerys compares his arms to tree-trunks. Belwas is three times the size of Daenerys; [1]  she originally estimates Belwas to weigh 20 stone, [1]  and later 15 stone. He wears baggy pants, a yellow silk bellyband and a tiny leather vest with iron studs. [2]  This leaves his upper torso mostly bare, making visible pale old scars in his arms, chest, and belly. He is armed with a curved  arakh  and a small shield the size of a pie plate, which he holds with his hand rather than strapped to his forearm like a knight. [2] 
 
 History 
 Belwas was a  slave , bred and trained in Meereen. [2]  He is a veteran  pit-fighter  who earned a reputation at the  fighting pits  of Meereen. He claims to have never lost a fight. His signature move is to allow each opponent to cut him once, then to go on the offensive and kill them. He is proud of his scars, pointing that Daenerys can count them to find out how many opponents he has slain. [1] [3]  He finds  Dothraki  "horse boys" to be amusing opponents. He clams to have killed many of them in the fighting pits, and that their bells jingle when they die. [1] 
 Belwas was eventually sold away from Meereen to  Qohor  and from there to  Pentos . His latest owner was  Illyrio Mopatis , whom he describes as a "fat man with sweet stink in his hair". Illyrio sends Belwas across the sea to locate Daenerys for him. [1]  Belwas remembers Illyrio weeping when news reached him of the death of  Viserys Targaryen ; he later spoke of this to Daenerys and  Jorah Mormont . In reaction, Jorah wonders if Illyrio wept for Viserys, or because the death canceled certain plans involving the claimant king. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Accompanied by his aged squire,  Arstan Whitebeard , Belwas is sent by  Illyrio Mopatis  to protect  Daenerys Targaryen , whom he meets in  Qarth , and take her back to  Pentos . He also tells Daenerys that he has three ships for her to travel in. [1] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Strong Belwas defiles Oznak zo Pahl's corpse at  Meereen - by Sir-Heartsalot ©. 
 Belwas travels with Daenerys in the ship,  Balerion , where he is served by Arstan. On the ship all he does is eat. [4] 
 Strong Belwas is one of Daenerys's bodyguards when she goes to purchase the  Unsullied  from the  Good Masters  of  Astapor . [5] 
 Belwas is with Daenerys when she treats with the commanders of the sellsword companies before  Yunkai . When  Prendahl na Ghezn , one of the three captains of the  Stormcrows , insults Daenerys, Strong Belwas offers to cut out his tongue. Daenerys refuses, saying that he has her safe conduct. [6] 
 When Daenerys  besieges Meereen ,  Oznak zo Pahl  rides out of the city on a white charger with a fourteen foot lance, challenging the besiegers to send forth a champion. Daenerys decides that Belwas is perfect since she can easily spare him, his death as an ex-slave would not give Oznak prestige, and a defeat to an ex-slave would be an insult. Belwas wounds Oznak's horse in the duel, leading to a sword fight. Belwas allows himself to be wounded in the stomach before he kills Oznak, severs his head, and holds it up high for those in Meereen to see. The defenders of the city fire arrows, but Belwas is too far away. He squats to defecate towards the city, wipes himself on Oznak's cloak, loots the corpse and kills the horse. Because Daenerys had lost her husband  Drogo  to a similar wound, she forces the reluctant Belwas to be treated for his wound by a Yunkish freeman known for his healing skills when he returns to camp. [3] 
 Later in the siege, Strong Belwas, Ser  Barristan Selmy , Ser  Jorah Mormont  and twenty other men enter Meereen though the sewers to take the city. Some of the freedmen in the group are afraid of the huge rats until Belwas bites one of them in two. When they enter the city, Belwas leads the group to the nearest of the  fighting pits , where they raise the fighting slaves to revolt, enabling Daenerys Targaryen to take the city. Later, when Daenerys dismisses Ser Jorah from her service, Belwas drags him out of her throne room. [7] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Belwas serves as a member of Daenerys Targaryen's queensguard, standing at her side when she holds court. During one such event Belwas smashes in the teeth of  Ghael , an envoy from Astapor. As a former gladiator, he is among those in favor of reopening Meereen's fighting pits. He becomes ill after eating  poisoned locusts  offered to Daenerys by  Hizdahr zo Loraq  at the opening of the fighting pits of Meereen, and nearly dies. [8] [9]  He manages to survive the poison due to his huge bulk, although his strength and weight are somewhat sapped by the experience. He is made part of the  ruling council of Meereen  instituted by Ser Barristan. As the city is surrounded by Daenerys's enemies, Selmy holds a war council wherein Belwas volunteers himself for a duel between champions. The other attendees favor a more traditional battle. [10] [11] [12] 
 
 Quotes 
 I let each man cut me once, before I kill him. Count the cuts and you will know how many Strong Belwas has slain. [1] 
 
 Bad fighting, good dying. Strong Belwas hates it when they scream. [8] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 9 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Belwas&oldid=206044 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Meereen Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Eunuchs Ruling council of Meereen Slaves and freedmen Pit fighters   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
