
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Nederlands Português Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Bran Stark 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 For other uses, see  Brandon Stark (disambiguation) . 
  Brandon Stark  
 Artwork by Mark Evans © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Alias 
Bran Bran the Broken The winged wolf Title 
 Prince of Winterfell [1] Allegiance 
 House Stark Culture 
 northmen Born 
In  290 AC [2] , at  Winterfell Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (POV) A Clash of Kings  (POV) A Storm of Swords  (POV) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (POV) 
 Played by 
 Isaac Hempstead-Wright TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Brandon Stark , typically called  Bran , is the second son of Lord  Eddard Stark  and Lady  Catelyn Tully . He is one of the major  POV characters  in the books. He has four older siblings— Robb ,  Jon ,  Sansa ,  Arya —and one younger— Rickon . Like his siblings, he is constantly accompanied by his direwolf,  Summer , with whom he shares a strong  warg  connection. [3]  He is seven years old at the beginning of  A Game of Thrones . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by Isaac Hempstead-Wright. [4] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast For Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Bran 
 5   Quotes about Bran 
 6   Family 
 7   Notes 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Bran Stark 
 Bran favors his mother  Catelyn  in appearance, having the thick auburn hair and deep blue eyes of the  Tullys . [5] [6] 
 Bran is a sweet and thoughtful boy, well-loved by everyone at  Winterfell . He has a fascination with climbing and exploring along the walls and ramparts of the castle. Catelyn once jested that Bran could climb before he could walk, however, his climbing often distresses her. [7]  Like his siblings, he is also dutiful and tough-minded, but also possesses a propensity for adventure and excitement; he yearns to see far off places one day and dreams of becoming a  knight . [8]  His half-brother  Jon Snow  fondly thinks to himself that Bran was always "stubborn and curious", and in like manner constantly wanted to join in the play of the older boys, believing himself an adult at seven. [9] 
 
 History 
 Born at  Winterfell  in  290 AC  at the height of summer, Bran is the second son and fourth child of  Catelyn Tully  and  Eddard Stark , head of  House Stark . He is named after his late uncle, Eddard's elder brother  Brandon , whose death was one of the major events that led to  Robert's Rebellion  in  282 AC . [10] 
 Bran has three older siblings ( Robb ,  Sansa , and  Arya ) and one younger ( Rickon ). He also has a  bastard  half-brother,  Jon Snow . As a child, Bran was educated by Maester  Luwin  and trained with  weapons  by the master-at-arms, Ser  Rodrik Cassel . A year before Bran's birth, in  289 AC , Eddard brought to Winterfell a hostage,  Theon Greyjoy , the last surviving son of  Balon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands . Although Robb and Theon became close after  Greyjoy's Rebellion , Bran never warmed to his father's ward. [11] 
 Bran enjoys exploring the castle, as he believes it allows him to know its secrets. Since he was a babe, Bran often climbed the walls of Winterfell, scaring Catelyn to death. Once, she pleaded for him to stop, and extracted a promise for him to do so, which he kept for barely a fortnight. When Bran, wracked with guilt, confessed this to Eddard, he ordered his son to the  Winterfell godswood  to cleanse himself, where Bran was eventually found asleep in the tallest  sentinel tree . Ned then accepted his climbing, but told him to try to not let his lady mother see him. [12]  Lady Stark then turned to others in the castle: first, Maester Luwin, who once made a boy out of pottery and threw it from Winterfell's walls to show Bran what would happen if the boy were to fall while climbing, then, to  Old Nan , who told him a story of a boy who climbed too high, was struck by lightning and had his eyes eaten by  crows , and finally the castle guards, who chased Bran from tower to tower in an attempt to haul him down. Each attempt was fruitless, and Bran continued his climbing. [12]  The boy enjoys feeding corn to the crows atop the  broken tower . [12] 
 Bran loves hearing Old Nan's stories, preferring the scary ones above all else concerning the  children of the forest , the  Long Night , and the  Others . [13] [14]  He is also enthralled by tales of  mystery knights  and the  Kingsguard , and asks to hear their stories over and over until their names become like music to him. However, he is disappointed to be informed by his father that the new Kingsguard is not as it once was. [12] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Eddard Stark  and Bran - by Amok © 
 Bran is among a group of twenty who witness his father, Lord  Eddard Stark , dispense the king's justice to  Gared , a deserter of the  Night's Watch , the first time Bran is allowed to accompany such a group. [15]  When they find a dead  direwolf  and her pups on the way back to  Winterfell , Bran passionately protests against killing the pups. Bran and each of the other Stark siblings receives one of the young animals as a pet. [15] 
 When Eddard is named  Hand of the King , Bran is excited at the prospect of seeing the knights and royalty of  King's Landing , yet he is still apprehensive about leaving. [12]  During the royal visit to Winterfell, Bran fights Prince  Tommen Baratheon  in the yard under the supervision of master-at-arms, Ser  Rodrik Cassel , which ends in Bran's victory. [5] 
 
   Bran is pushed by  Jaime Lannister  from the  First Keep  window. ©FFG 
 When King  Robert I Baratheon  and the older men leave on a hunting trip, Bran begins climbing to Winterfell's  broken tower  so he can feed the  crows  one last time. When near a window in the  First Keep , however, he discovers Queen  Cersei Lannister  and her brother, Ser  Jaime , having sex, although the boy does not understand their actions. Jaime pushes Bran from the window, intending to kill the boy to keep the incestuous love affair a secret, [12]  but Bran survives and enters a coma. [16] 
 While Bran is comatose, an attempt is made on his life by an unnamed  catspaw  with a  Valyrian steel dagger . His mother,  Catelyn Stark , delays the assassin long enough for Bran's unnamed direwolf to arrive and tear out his throat. [6]  In the meantime, Bran has many visions in his coma, including a hazy memory of falling from the tower, a  three-eyed crow  that tells him it can teach him to fly, and the  heart of winter . With the crow's guidance, Bran wakes and immediately names his direwolf " Summer ". [17] 
 Crippled by his fall, Bran is confined to a tower chamber where  Old Nan  keeps him company. She tells Bran stories of the  north  and the  Long Night . [18]  When  Tyrion Lannister  stops at Winterfell on his way back from the  Wall , he gives schematics for a saddle designed for Bran's crippled form, despite threats from Bran's brother  Robb , acting as Lord of Winterfell, and the direwolves. Bran, however, is overjoyed at the prospect of learning to ride again. [18]  Later, while testing Tyrion's suggestion out on a ride in the  wolfswood , Bran is ambushed by a band of  wildlings  and  Night's Watch  deserters, but is rescued by Robb,  Theon Greyjoy ,  Grey Wind , and Summer. [19] 
 Afterwards, Bran begins to bond with the sole survivor of that band,  Osha , due to their shared faith in the  old gods . When Robb calls the northern banners following Lord Eddard's arrest in  King's Landing , Bran witnesses the incident with the  Greatjon , and is the acting Lord of Winterfell when Robb rides south. [20] 
 Later, Bran has a dream of his father in the  crypt of Winterfell . He ventures there with Osha, finding nothing.  Rickon Stark  also reveals that he dreamed the same dream last night. Almost immediately after leaving the crypts, Maester Luwin receives a raven-borne message informing Winterfell of Ned's execution by King  Joffrey I Baratheon 's command. [21] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After  Robb  becomes  King in the North , Bran, as Robb's heir, becomes the  Prince of Winterfell , and he rules the castle in his brother's absence. [22]  Bran dislikes his mother Catelyn's new wards,  Big Walder  and  Little Walder Frey . [23]  Bran meets several bannermen during the  harvest feast  and he befriends  Meera  and  Jojen Reed , children of his father Eddard's most trusted friend, Lord  Howland Reed . [3] 
 
   After Bran's accident  Hodor  carries him in a basket ‎on his back - © 2012 Miguel Regodón Harkness 
 While sleeping, Bran frequently enters  Summer 's mind—though the boy thinks he is simply dreaming—and begins to become more bestial. Jojen recognizes Bran's ability as  skinchanging , and instructs him on how to use it properly. After learning of Bran's visions, Jojen claims that if Bran goes north  beyond the Wall , he can find the  three-eyed crow  from his dreams. Maester Luwin, however, does not believe that Jojen has  greensight . [8] 
 Theon Greyjoy , Eddard's ward,  captures Winterfell  and, claiming to be the Prince of Winterfell, holds Bran and Rickon as hostages. Bran, Rickon, Osha, Hodor, and the Reeds escape one night [24]  and hide in the  crypts . [10]  Unable to find them in the  wolfswood , [24]  Theon has two miller's boys murdered and skinned by " Reek " and proclaims them to be Bran and Rickon. [25]  Theon prevents Luwin from burying the bodies in the crypts. [25] 
 At  Riverrun , Catelyn is informed that Bran and Rickon were captured by Theon on the  Acorn Water  and their heads are now displayed at Winterfell. [26]   Jaime Lannister , a captive since the  Whispering Wood , admits to Catelyn that he flung Bran from a window but insists he was not involved with the  catspaw 's attempt on Bran's life. [26] 
 In the  Skirling Pass ,  Jon Snow , Bran's half-brother, dreams he is his own direwolf,  Ghost . A dreaming Jon sees a three-eyed Bran in the face of a  weirwood . [27] 
 Theon is eventually betrayed by Reek, actually  Ramsay Snow , the bastard of Lord  Roose Bolton . Men of  House Bolton  scatter Ser  Rodrik Cassel 's men in a  battle in the winter town . Ramsay then orders the killing of Theon's  ironborn  and the  sack of Winterfell , although he spares the Freys. [28] 
 Bran and his companions emerge from the crypts to find Winterfell in ruins. The brothers find a mortally-wounded Maester Luwin, who advises their traveling party to split. Rickon and Osha set off in the direction of  White Harbor . Bran, Hodor, and the Reed siblings set off north to seek the  three-eyed crow . [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Bran,  Summer ,  Hodor , and the  Reeds  at  Queenscrown  by Michael Komarck© 
 The burning of Winterfell is attributed to Theon, and Ramsay is said to be flaying Theon in vengeance for the supposed deaths of Bran and Rickon. [29]  Ramsay conspired with Theon regarding the miller's children, so Bolton men search the  north  for the real Bran and Rickon. [30]  Bran travels in secret with  Meera ,  Jojen , and  Hodor , avoiding the main roads. They stay at the so-called  Tumbledown Tower  and Jojen warns Bran against staying too long in  Summer . [31] 
 When the weather turns colder in the  northern mountains , Summer finds shelter and they meet a a  Liddle  who shares his food with them. When they ask if they should take the  kingsroad , the  clansman  tells them that it is treacherous for travellers, as  the war  has made everywhere dangerous. The group decide to head to the  Nightfort  instead of  Castle Black  due to Jojen's  green dream . Meera then tells Bran about the  Knight of the Laughing Tree , a story which the Reeds are surprised that Bran has never heard before. [30] 
 En route to the  Wall , the party stops in the  Gift  at  Queenscrown , an abandoned holdfast surrounded by water, which they are able to get to due to a concealed passageway through the moat remembered by Bran from one of  Old Nan 's stories. While hidden inside the tower they spot men in the village. [1]  Summer attacks the men, among whom is Bran's half-brother,  Jon Snow . Bran then enters Summer's mind and attacks the men trying to slay Jon, giving him the opportunity to escape his  wildling  companions. Summer is wounded by an arrow in the skirmish, but manages to recover after being treated by Meera. [32] 
 The troupe eventually reaches the Wall at the Nightfort, and, while sleeping, Bran is awoken by footsteps. At first, the group are terrified to have been discovered, but as Meera attacks the intruders, Bran recognizes one as a brother of the  Night's Watch  and meets  Samwell Tarly , accompanied by the wildling  Gilly . Sam leads them through a secret door at the bottom of a well that takes them through to the north side of the Wall. There they meet  Coldhands , an enigmatic figure of uncertain allegiance. Bran, Jojen and Coldhands all extract a promise from Sam that he will tell no one that they are alive. Sam reluctantly agrees, even keeping the secret from Jon Snow, his sworn brother of the Night's Watch. [33] 
 Bran's mother,  Catelyn , and brother, King  Robb , are slain in the  Red Wedding . [34]  The  Iron Throne  legitimizes Ramsay and names his father, Lord  Roose Bolton , the new  Warden of the North . [35] 
 
 A Feast For Crows 
 At the Wall, Samwell is summoned to Jon, the new  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , who mentions his message to the new king,  Tommen I Baratheon , requesting aid for the Watch. He notes bitterly that Bran once bested Tommen at swords in the yard at  Winterfell ; now Bran is dead, and Tommen sits upon the  Iron Throne . Sam wants to tell Jon his brother is alive and  beyond the Wall , but he keeps his promise and does not say a word. [36] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Bran meets the  three-eyed crow . by Marc Simonetti© 
 Bran,  Meera ,  Jojen ,  Hodor , and  Coldhands  continue their journey through the  haunted forest  in search of the  three-eyed crow . Bran begins to become infatuated with Meera, while Jojen grows thin and weak. The journey is long and cold, and they suffer on the brink of starvation. The group is briefly left by Coldhands, who returns after killing  oathbreakers  of the  Night's Watch . To try and sate his hunger, Bran feasts on the flesh of the deserters while inside  Summer . [37] . Returning to his own skin, Bran eats meat which Coldhands claims to be pig. [37] 
 As they continue north, Coldhands' elk collapses and is butchered by the ranger and Meera for meat. Despite promising himself he would rather go hungry than feast on a friend, Bran eats the meat twice; once in his own skin, and once in Summer's. The steaks sustain the group for seven days. [38] 
 In the depths of the haunted forest, the group is ambushed by  wights  outside the  cave of the three-eyed crow , and Bran enters Hodor's mind to fight off the wights. Inside they meet one of the  children of the forest ,  Leaf , who reveals she saved them by burning the wights. However, the cave is warded against  white walkers  and wights, so Coldhands cannot accompany them inside. Leaf takes them deeper into the cave, underneath  weirwood  roots and across a floor of bones, until they reach a skeletal body sitting on a throne made of roots - the three-eyed crow, the last  greenseer . The pale lord tells Bran that the boy will not walk again, but he will fly. [38] 
 The three-eyed crow, whom Bran learns was named  Brynden , [39]  begins to teach Bran about  greensight  and  skinchanging . Bran is fed  weirwood paste , which awakens his greenseeing gifts. He then enters the weirwood roots around them and sees his father,  Eddard , through  Winterfell's heart tree  in the past. Grief-stricken, Bran tries to speak to Ned, but all that is heard is a whisper on the wind. Brynden explains that Bran can learn from the past through the weirwoods, but it is impossible to change it. [39] 
 
   Depiction of Bran Stark and the  children of the forest  by Conor Campbell © 
 Bran continues to enter Hodor to explore the deeper parts of the cave. When the crow sends him to rest, Bran dreams through the  heart tree  in the  godswood of Winterfell  and sees flashes of the past as far back as the old  Kings of Winter : [39] 
 
 His  young father  praying with a bowed head "…let them grow up close as brothers, with only love between them, and let  my lady wife  find it in her heart to forgive."; [N 1] 
 A girl and a younger boy play fighting with branches; [N 2] 
 A pregnant woman coming out of the black pool praying for a son to avenge her; 
 A slender girl on her toes kissing a  knight  as tall as Hodor; [N 3] 
 A pale, dark-eyed youth cutting three branches from the weirwood and shaping them into arrows; 
 Other lords of Winterfell: tall, hard, stern men in fur and chain mail; 
 A bearded man forcing a captive down on his knees, and a white-haired woman killing the captive with a bronze sickle. 
 A mutilated Theon is brought back to Winterfell by  Roose  and  Ramsay Bolton . After Ramsay weds " Arya Stark " before the castle's  heart tree , Theon thinks he hears a voice whisper his name. [40]  Later, Theon thinks he sees Bran's face in the weirwood and hears the boy's name spoken by the tree. [41] 
 
 Quotes by Bran 
 Bran : What are you doing to me? crow : Teaching you to fly. Bran : I can't fly! crow : You're flying right now. Bran : I'm falling! crow : Every flight begins with a fall. [17] —Bran and the  three-eyed crow  in his dreams 
 
 
 
 Bran : Do trees dream? Luwin : Trees? No ... Bran : They do. They dream  tree dreams . I dream of a tree sometimes. A  weirwood , like the one in the  godswood . It calls to me. The  wolf dreams  are better. I smell things, and sometimes I can taste the blood. [23] —Bran and  Luwin 
 
 
 
 The stone is strong ... The roots of the trees grow deep, and under the ground the  Kings of Winter  sit their thrones. So long as those remained,  Winterfell  remained. It was not dead, just broken. Like me ... I'm not dead either. [10] —Bran's thoughts after the  sack of Winterfell 
 
 
 
 Old stories are like old friends. You have to visit them from time to time. [30] —Bran to  Meera Reed 
 
 
 
 All the tales agreed that the  green men  had strange magic powers. Maybe they could help him walk again, even turn him into a  knight . They turned the  little crannogman  into a knight, even if it was only for  a day , he thought. A day would be enough. [30] —Bran's thoughts 
 
 
 
 Bran : I'm here, only I'm broken. Will you ... will you fix me ... my legs, I mean? crow : No. That is beyond my powers. You will never walk again, Bran, but you will fly. [38] —Bran and the  three-eyed crow 
 
 Quotes about Bran 
 Eddard :  The man  died well, I'll give him that. I was glad for Bran's sake. You would have been proud of him. Catelyn : I am always proud of Bran. [42] — Catelyn Stark  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 
 He is a sweet boy, quick to laugh, easy to love. Let him grow up with the young princes, let him become their friend as  Robert  became mine. [7] — Eddard Stark  to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 
 I prayed for it. He was my special boy. I went to the  sept  and prayed seven times to the  seven faces of the god  that  Ned  would change his mind and leave him  here  with me. [43] — Catelyn Stark  to  Jon Snow  during Bran's coma 
 
 
 
 I may indeed have shit for honor, I won't deny it, but I have never yet  hired anyone  to do my killing. Believe what you will, Lady Stark, but if I had wanted your Bran dead I would have slain him myself. [26] — Jaime Lannister  to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 
 Innocent? The wretched boy was spying on us. [44] — Jaime Lannister  to  Brienne of Tarth 
 
 
 
 He's our  prince . [33] — Meera Reed  to  Samwell Tarly 
 
 
 
 The strongest trees are rooted in the dark places of the earth. Darkness will be your cloak, your shield, your mother's milk. Darkness will make you strong. [39] —the  three-eyed crow  to Bran 
 
 
 
 No one had expected the broken boy to live. The gods could not kill Bran, no more than I could. It was a strange thought, and stranger still to remember that Bran might still be alive. [45] — Theon Greyjoy 's thoughts 
 
 
 
 They know.  The gods  know. They  saw what I did . And for one strange moment it seemed as if it were Bran's face carved into the pale trunk of the  weirwood , staring down at him with eyes red and wise and sad. Bran's ghost, he thought, but that was madness. Why should Bran want to haunt him? He had been fond of the boy, had never done him any harm. It was not Bran we killed. It was not  Rickon . They were only miller's sons, from the mill by the  Acorn Water . [41] — Theon Greyjoy 's thoughts 
 
 Family 
 
                             Beron   Lorra Royce         
                                                                                                                                                                         
 Donnor   Lyanne Glover   Willam   Melantha Blackwood   Berena   Lysara Karstark   Artos   Alysanne   Errold   Rodrik   Arya Flint                   
                                                                                                                                                             
     Brandon   Jocelyn   Benedict Royce   Edwyle   Marna Locke   Brandon   Benjen       Harrold Rogers   Branda                     
                                                                                               
                 House Royce                         Issue   Issue                             
                                                                                         
                                 Rickard                                           Lyarra                                               
                                                                                                                                                       
                     Brandon   Catelyn Tully   Eddard                           Lyanna   Benjen                             
                                                                                                                           
     Jeyne Westerling   Robb   Sansa   Tyrion Lannister   Arya   Brandon   Rickon   Jon Snow       
 
 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   Likely shortly after his return from  Robert's Rebellion , referring to  Robb Stark  and  Jon Snow 
 
 ↑   Theorized to be Bran's uncle  Benjen Stark  and late aunt  Lyanna Stark ; Bran finds her similar to his sister  Arya , who is said to remind people of a young Lyanna as per  A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 22 
 
 ↑   Theorized to be  Duncan the Tall  kissing a young woman, possibly a young  Old Nan , at Winterfell, foreshadowing a future  Dunk and Egg  story with the working title  The She-Wolves of Winterfell . 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 40 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑   See the  Brandon Stark (Bran)  calculation. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 21 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑   HBO Cast and crew page 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 7 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 6 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 28 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 19 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 69 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2   12.3   12.4   12.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 28 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 1 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 9 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 17 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 24 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 37 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 53 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 66 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  24.0   24.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 56 , Theon V. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1   26.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 53 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1   30.2   30.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 9 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑  33.0   33.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 56 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 5 , Samwell I. 
 
 ↑  37.0   37.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  38.0   38.1   38.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 13 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  39.0   39.1   39.2   39.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 34 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑  41.0   41.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 2 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 10 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 1 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 41 , The Turncloak. 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Stark . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Stark. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Bran_Stark&oldid=216480 "  
 Categories :  House Stark Characters from the North Cripples Greenseers Hostages of House Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings Nobles POV characters Skinchangers   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
