
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Cersei Lannister 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 "Cersei" redirects here. For other articles with the same or a similar name, see  Cersei (disambiguation) 
  Cersei Lannister  
 Cersei Lannister, art by Magali Villeneuve ©. 
 Title 
 Light of the West Queen Dowager Protector of the Realm Lady of Casterly Rock Queen Regent Allegiance 
 House Lannister Culture 
 Westermen Born 
In  266 AC [1] [2] , at  Casterly Rock Spouse 
King  Robert I Baratheon Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (POV) A Dance with Dragons  (POV) 
 Played by 
 Lena Headey Nell Williams  (young) TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Cersei Lannister  is the only daughter and eldest child of Lord  Tywin Lannister  of  Casterly Rock  and his wife, Lady  Joanna Lannister . She is the twin of her younger brother, Ser  Jaime Lannister . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  Cersei is played by  Lena Headey , and is portrayed when she is a child by  Nell Williams  in a  Season 5  flashback.
 After  Robert's Rebellion , Cersei married King  Robert I Baratheon  and became Queen of the  Seven Kingdoms . She is the mother of Prince  Joffrey , Princess  Myrcella , and Prince  Tommen  of  House Baratheon of King's Landing . Cersei becomes a  POV character  in  A Feast for Crows .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Attempted betrothal to Rhaegar Targaryen 
 2.3   Living at court 
 2.4   Marriage 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Cersei 
 5   Quotes about Cersei 
 6   Family 
 7   Behind the Scenes 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Cersei Lannister 
 When they were children, Cersei and her twin-brother,  Jaime , looked so alike not even their father,  Tywin , could tell them apart. [3]  As adults, they still significantly resemble each other. [4] [5]  Cersei is a strikingly beautiful woman, [6]  with golden hair, [7] [8]  emerald green eyes, [9] [10] [11] [12] [7] [13] [14]  fair skin, [10]  and a slender, graceful figure. [7] 
 Cersei is willful, ambitious and has a certain low cunning. She is hungry and greedy for power. [15] [16]  Cersei believes herself to be subtle [4]  and politically astute. She hates being excluded from power on account of her gender, [17]  and resents the customs and conventions put on her because she is female. [7] [3]  She thinks of herself as a female version of her father, [18] [10] [19] [20]  and feels slighted when people do not obey her commands as they would have done for Lord Tywin, but instead give her their counsel, or disagree with her, which she faults on her gender. [21] 
 Cersei is impatient, [7]  and never forgets a slight, whether real or imagined. She considers caution to be cowardice and disagreement for defiance. [16]  Her quick temper and her easily wounded pride frequently lead her to make rash decisions, and she rarely considers what unintended consequences her actions might have. [4]  She does not shy away from using sex as a weapon. [3] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
 Cersei was born in  266 AC  as the first-born child and only daughter to Ser  Tywin Lannister , heir to  Casterly Rock , and his wife, Lady  Joanna . [1] [2]  Cersei was born shortly before her twin brother  Jaime , who was holding her foot. [22] [17]  King  Aerys II Targaryen  sent the twins their weights in gold as a  name day  gift, and commanded Tywin to bring the children to court when they were old enough to travel. [1]  It is currently unknown whether this visit to King's Landing actually occurred, as the royal court came to Casterly Rock following the death of Lord  Tytos Lannister  in  276 AC . [1]  Cersei and Jaime did visit King's Landing in  272 AC , when their mother brought them from Casterly Rock for the  Anniversary Tourney  held to celebrate the tenth year of King Aerys's reign. [1] 
 During their early childhood, Cersei and Jaime were inseparable. [23]  They looked so similar as children, up to the point that not even their father was able to keep them apart. [3]  Because of their similar looks, Cersei occasionally wore Jaime’s clothes and took lessons from the master-at-arms in his stead, without anyone realizing. [24]  They played in the bowels of Casterly Rock, where the caged lions of Cersei's late grandfather, Tytos, were kept. Cersei and Jaime would dare each other to climb into the cage. Cersei once dared to go as far as touch one of the lions, until her brother pulled her away. [10]  Cersei and Jaime slept together in the same bed when they were very young, [23]  and experimented together in a sexual manner at a young age. [22]  During one of these encounters, they were caught by a servant who informed their mother. A guard was placed near Cersei's bedchamber, whilst Jaime's bedchamber was moved to the other side of the castle. The twins were told never to do anything like that ever again, as Joanna would otherwise be forced to tell their father. [25] 
 Cersei's mother died not long thereafter, [25]  in  273 AC , [1] [2]  when giving birth to Cersei's younger brother,  Tyrion . [9]  For killing her mother, Cersei despised her youngest sibling. [26]  Shortly after Joanna's death, the  Princess of Dorne  visited Casterly Rock with her two youngest children,  Elia  and  Oberyn Martell . Though Tyrion was kept out of sight during the visit of the  Martells , Cersei promised Princess Elia to show Tyrion to her. Threatening her brother's wet nurse before sending her away, Cersei undid Tyrion's swaddling clothes and hurt her little brother, until Jaime stopped her. [26]  The Princess of Dorne proposed a betrothal between Cersei and Oberyn, during this visit, but she was refused, and Tywin informed her that Cersei was meant as a bride for Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . [27] 
 
 Attempted betrothal to Rhaegar Targaryen 
   Cersei Lannister, by Elia Fernandez ©. 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  first informed Cersei of his wish to betroth her to the crown prince when she was no older than six or seven, though he told her never to speak of it until a betrothal was officially announced. [21]  Cersei drew a picture of her and  Rhaegar  on a  dragon , once, though she claimed it depicted King  Jaehaerys I Targaryen  and his sister-wife,  Alysanne , when Jaime discovered it. [21]  At the age of ten in  276 AC , Cersei became infatuated with Rhaegar after meeting him for the first time during the  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  at  Lannisport . [21] [1]  Before the tourney began Cersei's aunt, Lady  Genna , informed Cersei that her betrothal to Rhaegar would be announced during the final feast of the tourney.
 After being separated from Jaime following their mother's discovery of their sexual experimenting, Cersei had numerous bedmaids and companions, daughters of Tywin's bannermen and household knights who were of an age with her. While Cersei occasionally appreciated their company, she had not liked any of them, believing them weak and convinced they were trying to come between her and Jaime. [23]  Following Genna's announcement that Cersei's betrothal to Rhaegar would soon be announced, Cersei brought  Melara Hetherspoon  and  Jeyne Farman  to a  woods witch ,  Maggy the Frog . After Jeyne fled out of fear, Cersei inquired as to when she and Rhaegar would wed and how many children they would have. Maggy correctly predicted Cersei's marriage with  the king  and the amount of children both would have. She went on to prophesy that Cersei would outlive her children, who would die as kings and queens, and that after everything she had was taken away by a younger and more beautiful queen, the  valonqar  would come to end her life. Melara suggested that if they never spoke about it, the prophecies would not come true. However, Melara died shortly after their visit to Maggy, and it is implied that Cersei killed the girl to prevent her from speaking of the prophecies.
 After Melara's death, Cersei inquired with her  septa ,  Saranella , about the meaning of  valonqar , who informed her it was  High Valyrian  for "little brother". [28]  Cersei eventually became convinced that  Tyrion  was the  valonqar  Maggy spoke of, resulting in her despising and mistrusting him even more than she had before. The prophecy of the  valonqar  has continued to haunt Cersei. [18] 
 After the guests left the  westerlands , Cersei learned from her aunt that Tywin had proposed the betrothal to King  Aerys II Targaryen , but Aerys refused Cersei as a bride for his son and heir. [21] [1] 
 
 Living at court 
 At the age of twelve, following the failure of Lord  Steffon Baratheon 's mission to find Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  a suitable bride in  Essos , Cersei was taken to  King's Landing  by her father, who still served as  Hand of the King . In the following years, Lord  Tywin Lannister  refused every offer of marriage for Cersei. According to  Jaime , Tywin still had his sights set on a Targaryen match, either hoping to betroth Cersei to young Prince  Viserys  or hoping for Rhaegar's new bride,  Elia Martell , to die in childbirth. [29] 
 In  281 AC , when Cersei was fifteen, Jaime visited King's Landing after receiving his  knighthood . Cersei informed him their father had been discussing betrothing Jaime to  Lysa Tully . Cersei seduced Jaime and persuaded him to join the  Kingsguard , which would require him to remain unmarried and live near her in King's Landing. Cersei knew that Tywin would be opposed to the idea, but that he could not openly object to, and offered to make the arrangements herself. [29]  However, she had no idea how much the relationship between her father and the king had deteriorated, and although Aerys did award Jaime a place in the Kingsguard, Tywin perceived Jaime's appointment to the Kingsguard as a slight by King Aerys intended to rob him of his heir. Furiously, he resigned as Hand, and moved back to Casterly Rock with Cersei, separating the twins once more. [29] 
 
 Marriage 
   Wedding  of Cersei and her husband, King  Robert I Baratheon . 
 After the conclusion of  Robert's Rebellion , a marriage was arranged between Cersei and the new king,  Robert I Baratheon , in order to seal the  new royal house's  alliance with  House Lannister . Cersei and Robert were wed in  284 AC . [30]  She and Jaime had sex the morning of her wedding. Nonetheless, Cersei was at first enthralled by the happy crowds at the royal wedding. However, her enthusiasm for the match ended when Robert called her " Lyanna " during their first night together. [22] 
 The marriage rapidly deteriorated, and Cersei resumed her incestuous relationship with Jaime. She bore him three children ( Joffrey ,  Myrcella  and  Tommen ), all of whom she successfully passed off as Robert's trueborn heirs. Although the king was away during the births of his children, Jaime was present for at least Joffrey's birth, though Cersei refused to let her brother hold the child, fearing people might start to suspect his true parentage. [31] [32]  On one occasion, early in her marriage, Cersei became pregnant by Robert. Unwilling to give birth to Robert's child, she sent Jaime out to find a woman to cleanse her. [22]  Having grown to resent Robert over the years, Cersei took further care to ensure he did not impregnate her. [22] 
 During the early years of their marriage, Cersei declined Robert's invitations to hunt with him, as Robert's trips allowed her more time with Jaime. [33]  Because two of Robert's  Estermont uncles  from  Greenstone  had remained at court for half a year following Cersei's marriage, Robert insisted on repaying the visit, and Cersei and Jaime accompanied him for a two-week stay at  Estermont . While there, Cersei suspected that Robert was sleeping with a cousin of his, and had Jaime follow Robert to confirms her suspicions. Cersei and Jaime slept together on Greenstone, and Cersei likes to believe that was the night their eldest son Joffrey was conceived. [21] 
 While Robert "claimed his rights" frequently during the early years of their marriage, his drinking led to him hurting Cersei during those encounters. When she confronted him once during their first year of marriage, Robert claimed it was because of the drink, and he was not to blame. When he tried to take another horn of ale, Cersei smashed her own horn in his face, chipping his tooth. Robert claimed not to remember anything of those nights, but Cersei believes otherwise, and is certain that Robert did recall what he did to her, but felt that pretending to forget was easier than facing the truth. Cersei, in turn, tried to pretend that Robert was Rhaegar during those years. Over time, Robert came to Cersei's bed less frequently, not even once a year. [23] 
 True to  Maggy 's prophecy, Cersei had three children, while Robert sired several  bastards . After Joffrey assaulted a pregnant cat, Robert suggested bringing  a bastard daughter of his  to court. Cersei threatened the girl, claiming  King's Landing  was a dangerous place for a girl growing up. Though Robert hit Cersei for that, the girl was not brought to court, and all of Robert's bastards were kept out of sight. [34]  According to  Petyr Baelish , however, there are rumors that Robert fathered twins on a serving woman at  Casterly Rock  in  295 AC , and that Cersei had the babes killed and the mother sold to a slaver. [35] 
 Eventually  Stannis Baratheon , familiar with the appearance of his brother Robert's black-haired, blue-eyed bastard offspring, grew suspicious of the royal children's lack of resemblance to their supposed father. He confided in  Jon Arryn , the  Hand of the King , and the two investigated the matter together. After the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day , Cersei and her children travelled with Lord Tywin to  Casterly Rock . During the fortnight following the tourney, Jon was  poisoned  and fell ill, eventually dying before he could act. While Cersei was innocent of the fact, Stannis was convinced that she was responsible for Jon's death, and he fled to  Dragonstone .
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Cersei Lannister, by Katherine Dinger ©. 
 After the death of the  Hand of the King ,  Jon Arryn , Cersei accompanies her husband, King  Robert I Baratheon , to  Winterfell , where the king offers the position to Lord  Eddard Stark . [36] [37]  When Robert and most of the castle go on a hunting trip, Cersei remains behind with her brother, Ser  Jaime . The two are seen having sex by  Bran Stark  in Winterfell's broken tower, and when Cersei insists that they must do something to prevent the boy from telling anyone, Jaime pushes him out of the tower window. [38]  She later berates Jaime for his impulsiveness, arguing that attempting to kill the boy was foolish when they could have simply intimidated him into silence. [5] 
 While the royal procession travels back to  King's Landing , Cersei's eldest son, Prince  Joffrey , bullies a common boy,  Mycah , prompting  Arya Stark  and her direwolf,  Nymeria , to attack and disarm him. Joffrey tells his parents that Arya and her wolf attacked him without provocation, and Cersei takes her son's side, arguing that the girl should lose a hand in accordance with the ancient penalty for striking a prince of royal blood. [39]  When Robert refuses to do so, she proclaims her desire regarding maiming or killing Arya to Jaime, using sex as bribe. Jaime searches for the girl, and would later imply that he would have been willing to do his sister's bidding. Instead, Arya is found by  House Stark guards . While Robert again resists Cersei's call for severely punishing Arya, the queen successfully pressures him into ordering the execution of another direwolf,  Lady , as a proxy at  Darry . [40] [39] 
 Having appointed Eddard Stark as Jon Arryn's replacement, Robert orders the  Hand's tourney  be held in honor of Eddard. [41]  Cersei forbids Robert from fighting in the melee, inciting a public argument between king and queen. [42]  Robert intends to fight anyway, but Eddard and Ser  Barristan Selmy  succeed in dissuading him. Later,  Varys  claims that Cersei had known publicly forbidding Robert from participating in the melee was the most effective way of convincing him to do so, and had been planning to have him "accidentally" killed in the melee. He also suggests that Ser  Hugh of the Vale , who had been killed by Ser  Gregor Clegane  earlier in the tournament, could have poisoned Jon Arryn at the Lannisters' instigation, only to have them arrange his death in order to ensure his silence afterward. [43] 
 When Cersei's brother  Tyrion  is abducted by  Catelyn Stark , Cersei argues with Robert, insulting his manhood for his failure to immediately avenge the insult to her family. The king strikes her in response, but Cersei tells him she intends to wear the bruise "as a badge of honor." Eddard does not approve and Robert admits that it was "not kingly," but blames Cersei for provoking him. [44] 
 Eddard, who has been investigating Jon Arryn's death, discovers the truth about the royal children's parentage. While the king is hunting in the  kingswood , Eddard confronts Cersei, who admits the accusation is true. She attempts to seduce him, but he refuses. Not wanting to see the children harmed, Eddard warns her that he intends to tell Robert the truth and urges her to flee with the princes and princess. [22]  Eddard plans to have his daughters,  Sansa  and  Arya , sail from King's Landing on the  Wind Witch . [45]  Sansa, not understanding the danger and desiring to marry Joffrey, informs Cersei of her father's plan. [46] 
 A drunken Robert is fatally injured by a boar during his hunt, [47]  having been given strongwine by his squire,  Lancel Lannister . [48]  On his deathbed Robert names Eddard regent until his thirteen-year-old heir Joffrey comes of age, though Eddard secretly changes “my son Joffrey” into “my heir”. [47]  The morning of Robert's death, Cersei seizes power, denouncing Eddard as a traitor who conspired against King Joffrey. She has Eddard imprisoned and is named Queen Regent, heading Joffrey's  small council . [49] [50] 
 Cersei intends to have Eddard convicted of treason but allowed to  take the black , thus discrediting him and removing him as a factor in the political arena without antagonizing the  north . She arranges a public confession for him on the steps of the  Great Sept of Baelor , assuring the  High Septon  that he will be offered forgiveness and the holy ground will not be profaned with blood. However, Joffrey ignores her advice and instead orders Lord Stark's immediate execution.  Janos Slynt  and Ser  Ilyn Payne  carry out the king's imprudent command before Cersei can intervene, deeply offending  the Faith  and rendering peace between  Stark  and  Lannister  impossible. [48] [51] [4] 
 Cersei weeps when she hears that Jaime has been captured by  Robb Stark  in the  Whispering Wood . [52]  She keeps the news of  Renly Baratheon 's coronation from Joffrey for a time, fearing he might take the field at the head of a force of  gold cloaks . She commands her father to come to the defense of the capital against Renly and the  Tyrells , but Tywin instead marches for  Harrenhal  and sends Tyrion to the capital in his stead. [53] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Having escaped  King's Landing ,  Arya Stark  adds Cersei's name to the list of those she desires dead. [54] 
 When Tyrion arrives in King's Landing, bearing a letter from their father, Cersei threatens to have him thrown in the dungeon, but he placates her by saying he could rescue Jaime. [4]  As Hand, Tyrion struggles to wrest control from her, finally resorting to  poison  to incapacitate her for a few days. [6] [55] 
 In Jaime's absence, Cersei begins sleeping with her cousin, the knighted  Lancel , which is discerned by Tyrion. [55]  She also reveals to Tyrion that she had given Lancel fortified wine for Robert's hunt, stronger than Robert usually drank. [4]  After Tyrion sends away Cersei's  personal guard , she employs three sellswords to replace them— Osney ,  Osmund  and  Osfryd Kettleblack —but Tyrion finds out and buys their loyalty. [13] 
 Tyrion deceives small council members and determines that  Pycelle  is Cersei's agent. When Tyrion arrests Pycelle, the Grand Maester tells him that Jon Arryn had been recovering from his poisoning, and that he had sent Jon's maester away in order to prevent Jon's recovery, assuming that Cersei wanted Jon dead. [6]  Tyrion gets Cersei to agree with sending Myrcella to  Dorne  to win over  House Martell . [7]  The day Princess Myrcella takes ship for  Sunspear , Cersei is among those caught up in the  riot of King's Landing , provoked in part by a thoughtless comment she makes to King Joffrey about a dead baby. [13] 
 As King  Stannis Baratheon  moves on King's Landing, Cersei sends Tommen to  Rosby  for safety, but Tyrion's men intercept the party and take the boy into Tyrion's custody. [56] [57]  Fed up with Tyrion's efforts to rule, Cersei arrests  Alayaya , a whore she believes Tyrion is sleeping with, and has the girl beaten. She uses Alayaya as a hostage to ensure Tommen's safe return; Tyrion, however, promises her that whatever happens to Alayaya, happens to Tommen as well, rapings and beatings included, frightening Cersei. [8]  Cersei removes Ser  Boros Blount  from the  Kingsguard  for his failure to resist Tyrion's men, and she replaces him with Osmund Kettleblack, a man just as hollow. [8] 
 As the  Battle of the Blackwater  begins, Cersei hosts a banquet for noblewomen in the  Red Keep . She claims it is in an effort to keep their minds off the fighting, but has invited Ser  Ilyn Payne , the  King's Justice , to be on hand to kill them if the city is taken, to prevent them from becoming hostages. When she hears that the  River Gate  is under attack, she summons Joffrey back to the Red Keep. [3]  Seeing the king flee back to the castle damages morale and causes the men to rout, nearly costing her the city. This outrages Lancel, who feels they could have held the gates if Cersei had not recalled the king. [58] 
 If not for the timely arrival and attack on Stannis's flank by the army of Lords Tywin Lannister and  Mace Tyrell , the battle would be lost for the Lannisters. [59]  Because Tyrion lies wounded and unconscious, Cersei is able to lie to Tywin and turn her father's prejudice against Tyrion to her advantage, stripping Tyrion's power by the time his convalescence is over. [60] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Cersei as depicted by  Lena Headey  in  Game of Thrones . 
 Tyrion Lannister  believes that Cersei is to blame for Ser  Mandon Moore 's assassination attempt at the  Blackwater . [61] 
 Cersei plans the upcoming wedding of her son, King  Joffrey I Baratheon , to  Margaery Tyrell . [61] [62]   Tywin  bends Cersei to his will and makes it clear his daughter is no longer wanted on the  small council . Against her wishes, he plans for her to marry her again, considering  Balon Greyjoy  (whose elderly wife  Alannys  has failing health),  Oberyn Martell ,  Horas  or  Hobber Redwyne ,  Theon Greyjoy ,  Quentyn Martell , and  Willas Tyrell  as potential matches. [62]  While Lord  Mace Tyrell  is initially receptive to Cersei marrying Willas, the offer is rejected after Mace speaks with his mother  Olenna , the Queen of Thorns. [63] 
 Cersei intends to keep  Sansa Stark  as her hostage, [62]  but Tywin forces the girl to marry Tyrion. [64]  During the wedding feast, Cersei dances with  Paxter Redwyne ,  Mathis Rowan , and her father. [64]  She also flirts with  Osmund Kettleblack  of the  Kingsguard . [65] 
 After Joffrey offends Tywin through his ungracious behavior, Tywin is furious and asks where the boy could have learnt such amoral sentiments. Cersei blames Robert but it is clear to all in the room, including Tywin's brother  Kevan , that Cersei is responsible. [66] 
 Joffrey is killed at  his own wedding feast , and Cersei accuses Tyrion and Sansa, falsely believing them responsible. [67]  Ser  Jaime Lannister  returns to  King's Landing  with the assistance of  Brienne of Tarth , and the Lannister twins have sex in a sept where Joffrey's body rests. Cersei rejects Jaime's suggestion of announcing their incest, like the  Targaryens  had done. [68] 
 Having escaped King's Landing with the aid of  Petyr Baelish , Sansa learns that the  Kettleblacks  are actually loyal to Petyr, not Cersei or Tyrion. [69] 
 Cersei finds numerous witnesses to testify against Tyrion, [17]  including his lover  Shae , [27]  and Cersei names Ser  Gregor Clegane  champion if there is to be a  trial by combat . This leads Prince Oberyn, whose sister  Elia  was murdered by Gregor over a dozen years ago in the  Sack of King's Landing , to champion Tyrion. [17]  Oberyn is killed and Gregor is severely wounded in the duel. [27] 
 Oberyn's death condemns Tyrion, but he is freed from his cell by Jaime and  Varys . Tyrion tells Jaime that Cersei has been sleeping with  Lancel Lannister  and Osmund Kettleblack. Before escaping the  Red Keep , Tyrion kills Shae and his father, Tywin. [70] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Cersei frames  Margaery Tyrell , leading to her arrest - by cabepfir ©. 
 Cersei's tendencies to paranoia, rash judgement and hysteria increase following the deaths of her son, King  Joffrey , and her father, Lord  Tywin . She resumes her position as  regent  over her surviving son, the eight-year-old King  Tommen , who is obedient to her will. As the eldest child of Tywin, she is also acknowledged as the Lady of  Casterly Rock  by her uncle, Ser  Kevan . [10] 
 Cersei has Ser  Osney  and Ser  Osfryd Kettleblack  hide Shae's corpse, [18]  and she has Ser  Boros Blount  and Ser  Osmund Kettleblack  murder the two guards who had been outside Tywin's chambers. [71]  She also has Osney murder the  High Septon . [20]  Since Tyrion has vanished, Cersei burns with  wildfire  the  Tower of the Hand , the site of Tywin's death, which her twin  Jaime  considers a folly. [72]  Word spreads throughout the  Seven Kingdoms  and the  Free Cities  that Cersei has promised a  lordship  to whomever brings her Tyrion's head, [10]  but innocents are killed instead. [34]  Cersei's paranoia alienates Jaime, [71]  who departs to secure the  riverlands  and resolve the  siege of Riverrun . [73] 
 Cersei surrounds herself with sycophants rather than honest and competent advisers, [34]  and she fills Tommen's  small council  with her own supporters and agents, disregarding the previous arrangements made by Tywin and the well-meant, if blunt, advice from Kevan. She becomes a restless sleeper, troubled by nightmares of Tyrion, who murdered Tywin, and the  Iron Throne  consuming her. [18]  Cersei also recalls the prophecy of the  valonqar , whom she considers Tyrion. [18] [19]  Numerous people, including several family members, consider her to be an ineffectual leader. [18] [16]  Cersei's growing dependency on alcohol increases her weight, but she blames the washerwomen for shrinking her gowns. [21] 
 Cersei suspects her powerful  Tyrell  allies, now relatives through Tommen's marriage to  Margaery , are trying to seize control of the kingdom. This suspicion grows from a  Gardener  coin found by  Qyburn  in the dungeon where Tyrion was being held before his escape [10]  – a coin similar to the ones Lady  Olenna Tyrell  carries with her when traveling, causing Cersei to wrongfully suspect a Tyrell involvement in Tyrion's escape. [14]  Cersei commences a campaign of intrigue to remove Tyrells in  King's Landing  from positions of influence and authority, including Margaery and her brother  Loras , a knight of the  Kingsguard . [21] 
 Cersei refuses to honor the debts owed by the crown, angering powerful institutions such as the  Iron Bank of Braavos  and the  Faith of the Seven . [34]  This results in the Faith refusing to bless King Tommen, and the Iron Bank calling in all their debts throughout  Westeros  and refusing all new loans. [33]  This causes economic chaos throughout the  Seven Kingdoms . With the monies owed, Cersei constructs a  new royal fleet  of warships and gives command to  Aurane Waters , the Bastard of  Driftmark  and a sellsail of questionable expertise and loyalty. [34]  Two of the dromonds,  Lioness  and  Sweet Cersei , are named in the Queen Regent's honor. [33] [23] 
 In an attempt to alleviate the crown's debts, gain the Faith's blessing, and gain more protection from her purported enemies, Cersei allows the new High Septon, the so-called  High Sparrow , to revive the  Faith Militant , ignorant of its history of  causing trouble  for monarchs. [33] 
 Cersei sends Ser  Balon Swann  of the Kingsguard to  Dorne  to deliver the head of Ser  Gregor Clegane . [34] 
 Cersei takes the disgraced former  maester  Qyburn into her service as  master of whisperers , using him as a torturer, and allowing him to conduct immoral experiments on human subjects. [10]  She befriends  Taena Merryweather , who informs Cersei that her maid  Senelle  is spying on her for Margaery. This leads Senelle to be given over to Qyburn for his twisted experiments. Taena becomes her bedwarmer and confidante. [23] 
 The queen is reluctant to aid the Tyrells after  Euron Greyjoy 's  taking of the Shields . Cersei instead gives command of the  siege of Dragonstone  to Loras, as the  Redwyne fleet  could return to the  Reach  when the island castle falls. [23]  Aurane Waters reports that Loras was gravely injured during the assault. [19] 
 Cersei manipulates  Falyse Stokeworth  and her husband, Ser  Balman Byrch , into attacking Tyrion's friend, the sellsword  Bronn , who was knighted and married to simple  Lollys Stokeworth  to pry him away from Tyrion. Falyse flees to  King's Landing  to report that Bronn killed Balman in a duel, though not before Bronn extracted a confession that Cersei was behind the attempt to kill him. Cersei responds by sending Falyse to Qyburn so nothing is found out about her machinations. [23] 
 Cersei plots to frame Margaery for adultery and treason. Having seduced Osney Kettleblack, she has him falsely confess to the High Sparrow that he had intercourse with Margaery and two of her three cousins,  Megga  and  Elinor . [28]  The High Sparrow acts on the information and has Margaery arrested when she visits the  Great Sept of Baelor . Cersei feigns concern publicly and visits the Great Sept in order to appear to the population that she wishes Margaery released. However, the High Sparrow arrests the Queen Regent for several crimes, including the murder of the previous High Septon. The High Sparrow was suspicious of Osney's confession and had him tortured till Osney revealed the truth. [20] 
 Cersei's ministers seize control of the government while she awaits trial in the Great Sept, and they recall her uncle Kevan from Casterly Rock to fill her position as  regent . Aurane absconds with the costly new fleet, while Taena flees for  Longtable . Accused of capital crimes, Cersei's only hope lies in a Kingsguard champion to stand for her in a  trial by combat . [20]  She sends an emotional summons to Jaime, which he burns at Riverrun without reply. [20] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Cersei's  walk of atonement  from the  Great Sept of Baelor  to the  Red Keep , by Marc Simonetti ©. 
 Ser  Balon Swann  arrives at  Sunspear  with a letter in which Cersei asks  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne , to give leave to her daughter  Myrcella  to return to  King's Landing  for a short visit, and to invite Doran to take the Dornish seat on the  small council  that has been left vacant with the death of Prince  Oberyn . Doran learns from informers at the royal court, however, that Balon is to invite Prince  Trystane Martell  to accompany Myrcella but then be killed by outlaws in the  kingswood , for which Tyrion is supposed to be blamed, with Balon as a witness. [74] 
 Cersei remains a prisoner of the  Faith of the Seven  in a tower of the  Great Sept of Baelor , under the care of Septas  Unella ,  Moelle , and  Scolera . To gain access to visitors, Cersei confesses to the  High Sparrow  that she had relations with her cousin,  Lancel Lannister , and all three of the  Kettleblack  brothers, knowing that such sins would not earn her an execution. She continues to deny having ordered  Osney Kettleblack  to kill the  previous High Septon , or that she was involved in King  Robert I Baratheon 's death. The High Septon agrees to allow her one visitor a day. Cersei learns from her uncle, Ser  Kevan , that  Jaime  disappeared in the riverlands with a woman, possibly  Brienne of Tarth . Kevan also tells his niece about  Myrcella 's injury and of  Arys Oakheart 's death at the  Greenblood , which leaves a vacancy in the Kingsguard. Cersei sends word to Lord  Qyburn  that the time has come. [75] 
 Before her trial, the Faith requires Cersei to submit to a  walk of atonement  from the Great Sept to the  Red Keep . Cersei is shaved of hair from her entire body, then stripped naked. An escort of  Warrior's Sons ,  Poor Fellows , and septas protect her from the leering and jeering crowds that have flocked to see her, with Septa Scolera ringing a bell and singing the word "shame". Cersei tries to hang on to her pride during the barefoot walk in spite of the crowds projecting filth at her and bawdy insults. Faces in the crowd remind her of  Tywin Lannister ,  Melara Hetherspoon ,  Eddard Stark ,  Tyrion Lannister , and  Joffrey Baratheon . She eventually breaks down in tears, however, just before finishing and entering the Red Keep. Upon her entrance,  Jocelyn Swyft  has her body covered. Cersei is carried into the castle by a giant knight, whom  Qyburn  introduces as the newest member of the  Kingsguard  and her champion, "Ser  Robert Strong ". [76] 
 Cersei dines with Tommen's regent, her uncle Kevan, who has been trying to repair the damage Cersei has done. She requests that Lady  Taena Merryweather  attend again her once her innocence is proved. Although Kevan has no news of Jaime, Cersei seems certain of his safety, believing she would know if he were dead. Later that evening,  Varys  has Kevan and  Pycelle  murdered to keep the realm in chaos. [77] 
 
 Quotes by Cersei 
 When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground. [22] 
 
 – Cersei to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Jaime  and I are more than brother and sister. We are one person in two bodies. We shared a womb together. He came into this world holding my foot, our old maester said. When he is in me, I feel... whole. [22] 
 
 – Cersei to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 A true man does what he will, not what he must. [22] 
 
 – Cersei to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 A woman's life is nine parts mess to one part  magic , you'll learn that soon enough... and the parts that look like magic often turn out to be messiest of all. [78] 
 
 – Cersei to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Love is  poison . A sweet poison, yes, but it will kill you all the same. [78] 
 
 – Cersei to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 The only way to keep your people loyal is to make certain they fear you more than they do the enemy. [3] 
 
 – Cersei to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 I waited, and so can  he . I waited half my life. She had played the dutiful daughter, the blushing bride, the pliant wife. She had suffered  Robert's  drunken groping,  Jaime's  jealousy,  Renly's  mockery,  Varys  with his titters,  Stannis  endlessly grinding his teeth. She had contended with  Jon Arryn ,  Ned Stark , and her vile, treacherous, murderous  dwarf brother , all the while promising herself that one day it would be her turn. If  Margaery Tyrell  thinks to cheat me of my hour in the sun, she had bloody well think again. [21] 
  – Cersei's thoughts, on ruling as  Queen Regent  until  Tommen Baratheon  comes of age
 
 
 Come at once. Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once. [32] 
  – Cersei writing to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 I am a  lioness . I will not cringe for them. [76] 
  – Cersei's thoughts before her  walk of atonement 
 
 
 I have sinned and must atone, must parade my shame before the eyes of every beggar in  the city . They think that this will break my pride, that it will make an end to me, but they are wrong. [76] 
  – Cersei's thoughts during her  walk of atonement 
 Quotes about Cersei 
 And Cersei . . . I have  Jon Arryn  to thank for her. I had no wish to marry after  Lyanna  was taken from me, but Jon said the realm needed an heir. Cersei Lannister would be a good match, he told me, she would bind Lord  Tywin  to me should  Viserys Targaryen  ever try to win back  his father’s   throne . I loved that old man, I swear it, but now I think he was a bigger  fool  than  Moon Boy . Oh, Cersei is lovely to look at, truly, but cold ... the way she guards her cunt, you’d think she had all the gold of  Casterly Rock  between her legs. [43] 
 
 –  Robert I Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 The longer Cersei waits, the angrier she'll become, and anger makes her stupid. I much prefer angry and stupid to composed and cunning. [7] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister  to  Bronn 
 
 
 I have never liked you, Cersei, but you were my own sister, so I never did you harm. You've ended that. I will hurt you  for this . I don't know how yet, but give me time. A day will come when you think yourself safe and happy, and suddenly your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth, and you'll know the debt is paid. [8] 
  –  Tyrion Lannister  to Cersei
 
 
 They are  knights  now,  all three , and your sister has promised them further advancement. And the eldest, Ser  Osmund  of the  Kingsguard , dreams of certain other ... favors ... as well. You can match the queen  coin  for coin, I have no doubt, but she has a second purse that is quite inexhaustible. [65] 
  –  Varys  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Every man's a piece to start with, and every  maid  as well. Even some who think they are players. Cersei, for one. She thinks herself sly, but in truth she is utterly predictable. Her strength rests on her beauty,  birth , and  riches . Only the first of those is truly her own, and it will soon desert her. I pity her then. She wants power, but has no notion what to do with it when she gets it. [69] 
 
 –  Petyr Baelish  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Cersei is a lying whore, she's been fucking  Lancel  and  Osmund Kettleblack  and probably  Moon Boy  for all I know. [70] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister  to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 His sister liked to think of herself as Lord  Tywin  with teats, but she was wrong. Their father had been as relentless and implacable as a glacier, where Cersei was all  wildfire , especially when thwarted. She had been giddy as a maiden when she learned that  Stannis  had abandoned  Dragonstone , certain that he had finally given up the fight and sailed away to exile. When word came down from the  north  that he had turned up again at the  Wall , her fury had been fearful to behold. She does not lack for wits, but she has no judgment, and no patience. [14] 
 
 –  Jaime Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Cersei is as gentle as King  Maegor , as selfless as  Aegon the Unworthy , as wise as  Mad Aerys . She never forgets a slight, real or imagined. She takes caution for cowardice and dissent for defiance. And she is greedy. Greedy for power, for honor, for love. [16] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister  to  Young Griff 
 
 
 This head of mine is worth a  lordship ... back in  Westeros , half a world away. By the time you get it there, only bone and maggots will remain. My sweet sister will deny the head is mine and cheat you of the promised reward. You know how it is with queens. Fickle cunts, the lot of them, and Cersei is the worst. [79] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister  to  Ben Plumm 
 
 Family 
 
                                     Tytos   Jeyne Marbrand                                       
                                                                                                                                                                     
             Tywin   Joanna Lannister   Kevan   Dorna Swyft   Emmon Frey   Genna   Tygett   Darlessa Marbrand   Gerion   Briony                     
                                                                                                                                       
 Robert Baratheon   Cersei   Jaime   Tyrion   Sansa Stark             Issue           Tyrek   Ermesande Hayford   Joy Hill               
                                                                                                                                       
 Joffrey Baratheon   Myrcella Baratheon   Tommen  Baratheon   Amerei Frey   Lancel   Martyn   Willem   Janei       
 
 Behind the Scenes 
 Cersei may have been inspired by  Isabella of France  and  Margaret of Anjou , both queens of English kings. [80] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     The World of Ice & Fire , The Westerlands: House Lannister Under the Dragons. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 60 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 3 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 1 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4   7.5   7.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 20 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 54 , Tyrion XII. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 5 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5   10.6   10.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2   16.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 22 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2   17.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2   18.3   18.4   18.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2   20.3   20.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1   21.2   21.3   21.4   21.5   21.6   21.7   21.8     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1   22.2   22.3   22.4   22.5   22.6   22.7   22.8     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1   23.2   23.3   23.4   23.5   23.6   23.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Cersei Lannister. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  27.0   27.1   27.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑  29.0   29.1   29.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 11 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑   See the calculation for  Cersei Lannister's wedding to Robert I Baratheon . 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  32.0   32.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑  33.0   33.1   33.2   33.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑  34.0   34.1   34.2   34.3   34.4   34.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 35 , Eddard IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 2 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  39.0   39.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 30 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 16 , Eddard III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 20 , Eddard IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  43.0   43.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 44 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 51 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑  47.0   47.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑  48.0   48.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 65 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 67 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 26 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑  55.0   55.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 29 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 62 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 67 , Tyrion XV. 
 
 ↑  61.0   61.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  62.0   62.1   62.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  64.0   64.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑  65.0   65.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 12 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑  69.0   69.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  70.0   70.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 77 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑  71.0   71.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  76.0   76.1   76.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 65 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑  78.0   78.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 52 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 57 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑   Time :  The Real Life Inspirations for "Game of Thrones" , April 4, 2012 
 
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 v d e 
Royal consorts in  Westeros Targaryens 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Visenya Targaryen   (1–37) 1 
 Rhaenys Targaryen  (1–10) 
 Alyssa Velaryon  (37–42) 1 
 Ceryse Hightower  (42–45) 
 Alys Harroway  (42–44) 
 Tyanna of Pentos  (42–48) 
 Elinor Costayne  (47–48) 1 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (47–48) 1 
 Jeyne Westerling  (47–48) 
 Alysanne Targaryen  (48–100) 
 Aemma Arryn  (103–106) 
 Alicent Hightower  (106–129) 1 
 Helaena Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Jaehaera Targaryen  (131–133) 
 Daenaera Velaryon  (?–157) 2 
 Daena Targaryen  (161) 3 
 Naerys Targaryen  (172–c. 179) 
 Mariah Martell  (184–209) 2 
 Aelinor Penrose  (209–221) 2 
 Betha Blackwood  (233–259) 2 
 Shaera Targaryen  (259–262) 2 
 Rhaella Targaryen  (262–283) 1 
 Consorts to claimants 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (42–43) 
 Daemon Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Drogo  (298) 
 Hizdahr zo Loraq  (300–present) 
 
 Baratheons 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Cersei Lannister  (283–298) 1 
 Margaery Tyrell  (300–present) 4 
 Consorts to rival kings 
 Selyse Florent  (299–present) 
 Margaery Tyrell  (299) 1 
 
 Independence movements 
 Greyjoys ,  Kings of the Iron Islands 
 Alannys Harlaw  (289, 299) 1 
 Starks ,  Kings in the North 
 Jeyne Westerling  (299) 1 
 
 
 1  Survived as Queen Dowager. 
 2  Unknown whether the Queen outlived her King. 
 3  Marriage was annulled. 
 4  Outlived one king, but subsequently married his successor. 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Cersei_Lannister&oldid=218170 "  
 Categories :  House Lannister House Baratheon Lords of Casterly Rock Characters from the Westerlands Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Members of Robert Baratheon's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Members of the small council Noblewomen POV characters Protectors of the Realm Regents Royal consorts Ruling ladies Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Twins   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
