
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Cleon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Cleon 
 
 Alias 
Cleon the Great The Butcher King King Cleaver Title 
 King of Astapor Culture 
 Astapori Died 
In  300 AC , at  Astapor Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 King  Cleon  of  Astapor , also known as  Cleon the Great  and  the Butcher King , is the current ruler of  Astapor . He has three daughters by his first wife and two of his newer wives are with child. [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 History 
 Cleon was once a slave owned by  Grazdan mo Ullhor , where he worked as a butcher. It was said he could cut up a pig faster than any other man in  Astapor . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After  Daenerys Targaryen  conquers the city of  Astapor , she installs a  council  of three men to rule after her departure. Cleon stirs up the people of Astapor, claiming that the council is attempting to reinstall the deposed  Good Masters . With the backing of the people, Cleon executes the council members and installs himself as king. He also has the male children of the deposed Good Masters kidnapped and castrated to train them into new Unsullied. [1] 
 Cleon then sends a messenger ( Lord Ghael ) to Daenerys in  Meereen , offering a pact between Meereen and Astapor to attack  Yunkai  and to seal it, he would put aside his wives and wed her. [1] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Cleon was defeated at a  battle  at the  Horns of Hazzat . He was forced to flee back to Astapor, with his faux  Unsullied  following him in retreat.  [2] 
 Cleon is slain by his own men when he commands them to march out and attack the  Yunkai'i . He is succeeded by a string of unsuccessful rulers, including a man calling himself  Cleon the Second , his concubine, called  Queen Whore , and Cleon the Second's killer, called  King Cutthroat . [3]  When the  Yunkai'i  attack  Astapor  during the  Siege of Astapor , Cleon's body is disinterred and clad in armor after the  Green Grace  of Astapor sees a vision that he would deliver them from the Yunkai'i. The corpse is then strapped onto a horse to lead the remnants of his new, subpar  Unsullied  into battle. Every man in the sortie was killed. [4] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 16 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Kings  of  Astapor 
 Cleon I  (299–300) 
 Cleon II  (300) 
 King Cutthroat  (300) 
 Queen Whore  (300) 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Cleon&oldid=206490 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Astapor Slaves and freedmen Monarchs Nobles Lowborn nobles Kings of Astapor Casualties of the Targaryen campaign in Slaver's Bay   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
