
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Cortnay Penrose 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Cortnay Penrose  
 Ser Cortnay Penrose - by Joshua Cairos. © FFG 
 Title 
 Ser Castellan  of  Storm's End Allegiance 
 House Penrose House Baratheon Born 
At  Parchments [1] Died 
In  299 AC , at  Storm's End Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) 
 Ser  Cortnay Penrose  is a  knight  of  House Penrose . He is named by  Renly Baratheon  as  castellan  of  Storm's End .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Cortnay 
 5   Quotes about Cortnay 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 Cortnay is completely bald with a red, spade-shaped beard and a weathered face. [2] 
 
 History 
 When  Renly Baratheon  was performing his duties as  Master of Laws , Ser Cortnay was the  castellan  of  Storm's End . He took a part in raising  Edric Storm , the acknowledged bastard of Renly's brother, King  Robert Baratheon . Cortnay is considered a seasoned battle commander. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After Renly's assassination, Cortnay sends out ravens with a plea for help in breaking  Stannis Baratheon 's  siege of Storm's End , offering to bend the knee to whomever would send him aid. [4]  He demands to see the corpse so he can make sure of Renly's death before turning the castle over to Stannis.
 Storm's End is besieged by the army of Stannis, unable to receive help from anyone. At a parley beneath the walls, Stannis demands Cortnay turn over the castle and  Robert Baratheon 's bastard,  Edric Storm , but Cortnay refuses, instead tossing his glove at Stannis and challenging him to a single combat duel. Stannis refuses this, and Cortnay tells him to elect a champion, insulting those who abandoned Renly to join Stannis. Rather than risk losing the duel, Stannis warns Cortnay that he will take the castle only by storm - a threat to which Cortnay replies by reminding Stannis of Storm's End's name.
 After the parley, Stannis tells  Davos Seaworth  that  Melisandre  has seen Cortnay's death in the flames of the future. That night, Stannis sends Davos and Melisandre to have the castellan assassinated by one of Melisandre's  shadows . [2] [5]  Cortnay's lieutenant, Lord  Elwood Meadows , immediately gives up the castle and Edric Storm.
 
 Quotes by Cortnay 
 A man who changes kings and gods the way I change my boots. As do these other turncloaks I see before me. [2] 
 
 - Cortnay to  Alester Florent 
 
 
 Is it the justice of your cause you doubt, my lord, or the strength of your arm? Are you afraid I’ll piss on your  burning sword  and put it out? [2] 
 
 - Cortnay to  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 May the Others bugger your Lord of Light, and wipe his arse with that rag you bear.  [2] 
 
 - Cortnay to  Melisandre 
 
 Quotes about Cortnay 
 Stannis:  A smuggler must be a fair judge of men. What do you make of this Ser Cortnay Penrose?
 Davos:  A stubborn man. [2] 
 
 -  Davos Seaworth  to  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 He throws my pardon in my face. Aye, and throws his life away in the bargain, and the lives of every man inside  those walls . Single combat? No doubt he mistook me for  Robert . [2] 
 
 -  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Cortnay Penrose. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 42 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 39 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Cortnay_Penrose&oldid=216389 "  
 Categories :  House Penrose House Baratheon retainers Nobles Castellans Characters from the Stormlands Knights Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Characters killed by Melisandre   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
