
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Daenerys Targaryen (daughter of Aegon IV) 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 For other uses, see  Daenerys Targaryen (disambiguation) . 
  Daenerys Targaryen  
 Art by Uno Piyo 
 Title 
Princess Allegiance 
 House Targaryen House Martell Born 
In  172 AC [1] Spouse 
Prince  Maron Martell Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) The Sworn Sword  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Princess  Daenerys Targaryen  was the daughter of  Aegon IV Targaryen  and  Naerys Targaryen , and the younger sister of King  Daeron II Targaryen .  Daenerys Targaryen , daughter of  Aerys II Targaryen  and  Rhaella Targaryen , was named after her. [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 2.2   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Daenerys 
 4   Quotes about Daenerys 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 History 
 Princess Daenerys was born in  172 AC , some nineteen years after the birth of her brother, the future King  Daeron II Targaryen , who had been born in  153 AC , the year their parents had been wed. [3] [1]  Daenerys had a twin brother, who was stillborn. Her mother, Queen  Naerys , lingered near death due to the difficult birth, but eventually recovered. [4]  At the time of her birth, Daenerys's brother Daeron was already married and had  a son  of his own. [5] 
 Daenerys's betrothal to the  Prince of Dorne , Prince  Maron Martell , was brokered by her brother Daeron as part of the treaty bringing  Dorne  into the realm of the  Iron Throne , [6] [5]  after negotiations lasting two years. [6]  It was said that Daenerys loved  Daemon Blackfyre , and that the main reason Daemon  rose in rebellion  against Daeron was that Daenerys was denied to him. [7]  Yet, it must be said that Daemon did not rebel until eight years after the wedding, and that Princess Daenerys is not recorded to have ever mourned her half-brother. [6]  By the time Daemon rebelled, he had been married to  Rohanne of Tyrosh  for years and had at least nine children with her, and Daenerys had already given Maron multiple heirs. [6] 
 Daenerys's wedding to Prince Maron was held in  King's Landing  in  187 AC , and after the ceremony Prince Maron and King Daeron went to pay their respects to the statue of King  Baelor I Targaryen , who had once brokered the peace between the Iron Throne and Dorne (with the marriage of King Daeron II and Princess  Mariah Martell , Maron's sister, as a result). To celebrate the marriage, a tourney was held, where Prince  Baelor Targaryen  won the name "Breakspear", defeating, amongst others,  Daemon Blackfyre  in the lists in the final tilt. [6] 
 According to  George R. R. Martin :
 
 Despite Daemon and Daenerys being in love, her brother the king,  Daeron the Good , was more concerned with matters of state than matters of love. There had been many years of fighting with Dorne, and failure to bring them into the Seven Kingdoms while not being able to keep them from harassing the Seven Kingdoms. So he realized that where violence failed, perhaps marriage could bring an end to hostilites and so he uses his sister to make an alliance with the prince of Dorne. It's a political marriage, pure and simple, a convenient marriage to guarantee a union between Dorne and the Seven Kingdoms. And also, he prefers to give his sister to the prince of Dorne over a bastard brother with whom he'd already had a few clashes and whom too many people were looking one as a legitimate claimant to the throne or rightful king. That was the straw that broke the camel's back, and helps lead to Daemon becoming the first Blackfyre Pretender. [8] 
 
 Prince Maron Martell built his new bride the  Water Gardens , a place of beauty made of colored marble with pools and trees, to free her from the heat and dust of  Sunspear . Their children played in the pools along with the children of other highborn lords and ladies. One day, when the sun was hot, she took pity on the children of the servants and guards and allowed them to play in the pools with the highborn children, starting a tradition that is still kept in Dorne to this day. [9] 
 A portrait of Princess Daenerys hangs in  Sunspear . [10] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 While  Davos Seaworth  is in  White Harbor , at a  winesink  named the  Lazy Eel , amongst the patrons, talk turns to the  Targaryens  and the  Mad King's  daughter, but none of the patrons are sure what the name of the princess is.  Davos Seaworth  mentions that her name is  Daenerys Targaryen , as she was named for the Daenerys who wed the  Prince of Dorne  during the reign of King  Daeron II Targaryen . [2] 
 During a feast at  Sunspear , Prince  Doran Martell  tells Ser  Balon Swann  of the Water Gardens and that  one of his ancestors  built them to please his Targaryen bride, Daenerys. He adds that it was her marriage that made Dorne part of the Seven Kingdoms. [9] 
 In  Meereen  Prince  Quentyn Martell  tells Queen  Daenerys Targaryen  that he can trace his lineage back to the first Daenerys, the Targaryen princess who was a sister to King Daeron II Targaryen and wife to  Maron Martell , the  Prince of Dorne . He tells her that Prince Maron had built the  Water Gardens  for his bride. Queen Daenerys admits to never having heard of the Water Gardens before. As they make their way back from  the Dragonpit , she asks Quentyn to tell her of her namesake. She confesses that she knows less than she should of the history of her father's kingdom as she never had a  maester  growing up to teach her. [11] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 Arianne Martell  recalls that in her younger days, she spent hours gazing at the portrait of Princess Daenerys hanging in Sunspear, back when she was just a pudgy flat-chested girl on the cusp of maidenhood who prayed every night for the gods to make her pretty. [10] 
 
 Quotes by Daenerys 
 This is your realm, remember them, in everything you do. [9] 
  - Daenerys, to her son and heir, speaking of the innocent children of the  Water Gardens , from the high-born to the low
 Quotes about Daenerys 
 The whole realm knew that the girl loved  Daeron ’s bastard brother  Daemon Blackfyre , and was loved by him in turn, but the king was wise enough to see that the good of thousands must come before the desires of two, even if those two were dear to him. [9] 
  - Prince  Doran Martell , to Ser  Balon Swann 
 
 
 Daemon Blackfyre  loved the first Daenerys, and rose in  rebellion  when denied her. [12] 
  - Ser  Barristan Selmy 's thoughts
 
 
 A hundred years ago, Daenerys Targaryen came to Dorne to make a peace. Now  another  comes to make a war. [10] 
  -  Arianne Martell 
 
 
 Whether Daenerys loved Daemon, as those who rose for the Black Dragon later claimed, who could say? In the years afterward, Daenerys was never aught but a loyal wife to Prince Maron, and if she mourned Daemon Blackfyre, she left no record of it. [6] 
  - Maester  Yandel 
 Family 
 
                                                                                     
 Aegon II   Helaena   Aemond   Daeron   Rhaenyra   Daemon         
                                                                                                                             
 Jaehaerys   Maelor   Jaehaera   Aegon III   Daenaera Velaryon           Viserys II   Larra Rogare             
                                                                                                                                                               
 Daeron I   Rhaena     Elaena   Alyn Velaryon   Baelor I   Daena   Aegon IV   Naerys   Aemon                       
                                                                                                                         
 Ossifer Plumm                       Jeyne Waters   Jon Waters     Daemon Blackfyre   Daeron II   Mariah Martell   Daenerys                 
         Viserys Plumm       Michael Manwoody                                                             
 Ronnel Penrose                               House Longwaters     House Blackfyre       House Targaryen                         
                                                                           
 Robin Penrose   Laena Penrose   Jocelyn Penrose   Joy Penrose   
                                                                         
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   See the  Daenerys Targaryen (daughter of Aegon IV)  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 15 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Viserys II. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aegon IV. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   So Spake Martin :  Targaryen History (April 20, 2008) 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Daeron II. 
 
 ↑     The Sworn Sword . 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Asshai.com Interview in Barcelona (July 28, 2012) . 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2     The Winds of Winter ,  Chapter  ,  Arianne I . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 50 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Daenerys_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Aegon_IV)&oldid=206558 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen House Martell Characters from the Crownlands Noblewomen Twins Members of Aegon IV Targaryen's court Members of Daeron II Targaryen's court   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
