
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Dalla 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 For the serving woman at Dragonstone, see  Dalla 
 Dalla 
 Dalla by  Eluas© 
 Culture 
 Free Folk Died 
In  300 AC , at Near  Castle Black Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Dalla  is the wife of  Mance Rayder . She has a sister,  Val .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Recent Events 
 
 1.1   A Storm of Swords 
 1.2   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 2   Quotes 
 3   See also 
 4   References 
 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Dalla is present when  Jon Snow  is brought to  Mance Rayder . She advises Mance and always gives him good counsel. She dies giving birth to  their son  during the  battle beneath the Wall . [1] [2] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Dalla's son, the so-called  wildling prince , is given over to the care of  Gilly . [3] 
 
 Quotes 
 We  free folk  know things you kneelers have forgotten. Sometimes the short road is not the safest,  Jon Snow . The  Horned Lord  once said that  sorcery  is a sword without a hilt. There is no safe way to grasp it. [1] 
  – Dalla, to  Jon Snow 
 See also 
 Images of Dalla 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 73 , Jon X. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 76 , Jon XI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 5 , Samwell I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Dalla&oldid=213809 "  
 Categories :  Wildlings Characters from Beyond the Wall Casualties of the Conflict beyond the Wall   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
