
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Daven Lannister 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Daven Lannister  
 Daven by Nacho Molina © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Title 
 Ser Warden of the West Allegiance 
 House Lannister Culture 
 westermen Born 
In  273 AC  (roughly) [1] , at  westerlands [2] Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (appendix) A Game of Thrones  (appendix) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned)   A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Ser  Daven Lannister  is a  knight  from  House Lannister . He is the son of Ser  Stafford Lannister , a cousin and brother-in-law of Lord  Tywin Lannister . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Family 
 5   Quotes 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Daven Lannister 
 Daven has lively hazel eyes, a pug nose, yellow hair, and a big chin. [4]  He is blunt and outspoken, but also jovial. [4] 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister  and Ser  Brynden Tully  do not think much of the capabilities of Ser  Stafford Lannister , but they hold his son Daven in higher esteem. [5] [6] 
 Daven wears gilded ringmail, a helm, and a fox-fur cloak. [4] 
 
 History 
 Ser  Stafford Lannister  has been negotiating to betroth his son Daven to  Desmera Redwyne , although an agreement has not been reached with Lord  Paxter Redwyne . [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 When fighting breaks out in the  riverlands , Ser Daven offers Lord  Tywin Lannister  to lead the foraging for the  Lannister  host, but he is refused. Tywin explains that some tasks are fit for lions while others better be left to goats and dogs, the latter a reference to  Vargo Hoat  and Ser  Gregor Clegane , who then organize the foraging. [4] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Daven's father, Ser  Stafford Lannister , is killed in the  Battle of Oxcross  by Lord  Rickard Karstark . [5]  Daven vows to let his hair grow until he has avenged his father. [4] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After the  Stark  army returns to the riverlands, Daven gathers the remaining soldiers of his father's army at  Lannisport . [7] 
 Robb Stark , the  King in the North , executes Lord Karstark for treason at  Riverrun , as Rickard had killed  Willem Lannister  and  Tion Frey  to avenge his own sons' deaths at the hands of Ser  Jaime Lannister  in the  Whispering Wood . [8]  Daven is thus robbed of his chance to take revenge on Rickard, the man who killed his father. Daven keeps letting his hair grow, although his vow has become obsolete. [4] 
 As part of the pact between Lord  Tywin Lannister  and Lord  Walder Frey  concerning the betrayal of Robb Stark, Daven is to wed a  Frey  to consolidate the alliance between the two houses. [9] 
 After the  Red Wedding , Daven and Ser  Forley Prester  join forces at the  Golden Tooth  and meet up with Ser  Ryman Frey  to besiege Riverrun. [10] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Daven now has long shaggy hair, a bushy mustache, sidewhiskers as thick as a hedgerow, and a bristling beard. [4] [11]  After Ser  Kevan Lannister 's refusal to serve as  Hand of the King , Queen  Cersei Lannister  names Daven  Warden of the West  and commands him to lay siege to Riverrun, where Ser  Brynden Tully  still holds a sizable garrison. [12] 
 The  siege of Riverrun  does not go easy. Brynden has taken all the food he could find to Riverrun, so the  Lannister  army cannot live off the land. Furthermore, there are quarrels among the besiegers. The  Freys  do not help their allies and only gather food for themselves. Daven does not like the Freys, but he intends to wed one, as he knows what happened to Robb Stark in the  Red Wedding . [4]  In addition, a part of the forces consists of riverlords who have surrendered. Although taken back in the king's peace, they are still less than enthusiastic about fighting their former allies. Daven wants to storm the castle, but is not able to persuade his commanders, especially Ser  Emmon Frey . [4] 
 When Jaime, the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , arrives to take command of the siege, Daven is pleased to be relieved of this task. He jokes about Jaime's missing hand and happily informs Jaime of the siege's troubles. [4]  Daven talks with Jaime about the true loyalty of the rivermen in front of some of their pages,  Lewys Piper  and  Garrett Paege . During the war council, he openly says that Ser  Ryman Frey  is drunk instead of sick. [11]  Jaime successfully negotiates the surrender of Riverrun, although Brynden the Blackfish is able to escape. [13] 
 
 Family 
 
                                                                                   Serving girl                                         
                             Marla Prester   Jason                                                     
                                                                     Alys Stackspear                                   
                                                                                                                                               
 Tywin Lannister   Joanna               Myranda Lefford   Stafford   2 sons   2 daughters   Damon   Ella Lannister   Lynora Hill             
                                                                                                                           
 Tyrion Lannister   Jaime Lannister   Cersei Lannister   Robert Baratheon   Daven   Cerenna   Myrielle   Shiera Crakehall   Damion           
                                                                                                                           
 Joffrey Baratheon   Margaery Tyrell*   Myrcella Baratheon   Tommen Baratheon   Margaery Tyrell*                 Lucion   Lanna   Antario Jast       
 
 
 
 Quotes 
 I vowed I would not let my hair be cut until  my father  was avenged. The  Young Wolf  got to  Karstark  first, though. Robbed me of my vengeance. I like a bit of hair. The nights grow colder, and a little foliage helps to keep your face warm. Aye, and Aunt  Genna  always said I had a brick for a chin. [4] 
  - Daven to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 You know the best thing about heroes, Jaime? They all die young and leave more women for the rest of us. [4] 
  - Daven to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Jaime : I hope you do not intend to take vows as well, coz. The  Freys  are prickly where marriage contracts are concerned. I would hate to disappoint them again. 
 Daven : I'll wed and bed my stoat, never fear. I know  what happened  to  Robb Stark . [4] 
  -  Jaime Lannister  and Daven
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Daven Lannister  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Daven Lannister. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.00   4.01   4.02   4.03   4.04   4.05   4.06   4.07   4.08   4.09   4.10   4.11   4.12   4.13     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 7 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 20 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Daven_Lannister&oldid=213704 "  
 Categories :  House Lannister Characters from the Westerlands Knights Nobles Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Wardens   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
