
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Denys Mallister 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Denys Mallister   
 Ser Denys Mallister © FFG 
 Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Mallister Night's Watch Culture 
 Rivermen Born 
In  245 AC  or before [1] , at  Seagard Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Ser  Denys Mallister  is a  knight  of  House Mallister  and a member of the  Night's Watch . He has commanded the  Shadow Tower  for thirty-three years. Denys is an uncle of  Jason Mallister , Lord of  Seagard . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Denys Mallister 
 Denys is an old man. He has blue-grey eyes and a long white beard. He has lost almost all his hair and his face is deeply lined. He still has his teeth and is graceful in his movement. He clasps his Night's Watch cloak with a silver  eagle . In his communication with other people Denys is courteous and well-spoken due to his high-born roots. [3] [4]  He is also considered cautious and chivalrous. [5] 
 
 History 
 Denys was born at  Seagard  as a member of  House Mallister . [3]  He was a squire at twelve, a  knight  at eighteen, and a champion at twenty-two years old. He once unhorsed both of  Samwell Tarly 's grandfathers at the same tourney ( Alester Florent  and and the father of  Randyll Tarly ). Denys has been the commander of the  Shadow Tower  for thirty-three years (since  267 AC ), and a candidate in the two last elections of  Lords Commander of the Night's Watch . [3] 
 When  Mance Rayder  returned from his ranging with scarlet silk woven into his cloak from a  wildling  who nursed him back to health, Denys ordered him to burn the cloak and wear only the black cloaks of the Night's Watch. Denys's stern order influenced Mance's decision to desert the Shadow Tower and the Night's Watch the next day, joining the  free folk  living  beyond the Wall . [6] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Denys writes to  Jeor Mormont ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , reporting that  wildlings  from the  Frostfangs  are moving south, slipping past the  Shadow Tower  in numbers greater than ever before. [7] 
 Denys sends another raven to Jeor, informing him rangers from the Shadow Tower have found whole wildling villages abandoned, and at night huge fires have been sighted, blazing in the mountains from dusk till dawn. [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Denys confirms the report of  Mance Rayder  gathering an army from the wildling captured by  Qhorin Halfhand  in the depths of the  Gorge , writing this to Lord Commander Mormont. [9] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 When discussing the  Night's Watch ,  Tyrion Lannister  advises his father, Lord  Tywin Lannister , to deal with Denys or  Cotter Pyke  rather than  Janos Slynt ; Tywin dismisses Denys as a  Mallister  of  Seagard , one that would not serve his purposes. [10] 
 Denys leaves the Shadow Tower to attend the choosing for the next Lord Commander to replace Jeor, who was slain in the  mutiny at Craster's Keep . Traveling with  Bowen Marsh  and the other  Castle Black  survivors of the  fight at the Bridge of Skulls , this party happens across  Samwell Tarly  and  Gilly  on the road, escorting them to Castle Black. [11] 
 Denys is a leading candidate to become the next Lord Commander, along with Cotter, collecting two hundred and thirteen votes by the time only seven candidates remain in the race. [11]  Because the support between them is divided, Janos Slynt appears as a potential alternative. Though Cotter and Denys hate each other, both agree that Janos would be a worse choice; both are persuaded by Sam Tarly to support  Jon Snow  instead. [3] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Denys sends regular  ravens  to Castle Black requesting additional men. [12]  He writes back to express disappointment in the ten untrained men from  Mole's Town  sent by Jon, and he also reports sightings of fires in the night north of the Gorge. [13]  Denys believes wildings are amassing to force the Bridge of Skulls once more. [14]  Denys later writes of seeing great camps of wildlings in the mountains beyond the Shadow Tower. [15] 
 
 Family 
 
                               
   Unknown Mallister   Denys 
                             
   Jason   Unknown brother 
               
   Patrek     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Denys Mallister  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 78 , Samwell V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 79 , Jon XII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 7 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 21 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 70 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 23 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 75 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 10 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 31 , Melisandre I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 53 , Jon XI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Denys_Mallister&oldid=212464 "  
 Categories :  House Mallister Characters from the Riverlands Knights Nobles Members of the Night's Watch   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
