
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Dick Crabb 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Dick Crabb 
 
 Alias 
Nimble Dick Allegiance 
 House Crabb Culture 
 Crownlands Died 
In  300 AC , at the  Whispers Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Dick Crabb , better known as  Nimble Dick , is a former soldier originally from  Crackclaw Point .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 He has a sharp face with dirt brown hair, is very thin and ill fed. He wears a faded, torn doublet where some lord’s badge had been ripped off. His armor is a dinted halfhelm spotted with rust. In place of a sword he carries an old nicked dagger. [1] 
 
 History 
 Dick was born and bred at  Crackclaw Point  and knows the terrain well, as well as much of its folklore and history. According to him he carries the blood of Ser  Clarence Crabb . He has a sister who was bedded by a  knight 's son and then went off to  King's Landing  to take a job as a whore. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Brienne of Tarth  was told to find Dick at the  Stinking Goose  in  Maidenpool  after she heard from the  pious dwarf  that Dick had boasted of helping a  fool  in motley escape from Maidenpool. [2] 
 Brienne finds her way to the Stinking Goose. When Dick entered Brienne immediately offered to buy him some wine for a word. She tells him she heard that he "fooled a fool" and offers him two silver stags for further information. Dick explained to Brienne how he had tricked a frightened fool and had brought him to a place where no ships had landed in thirty years. [1] 
 Dick tells her the fool wanted passages for three. Brienne wonders if it might be for  Arya  and  Sansa Stark . She then shows him a golden dragon. He reveals that he took the trio to the  Whispers  in  Crackclaw Point . He offers to help Brienne find the fool and those with him for gold. Brienne promises him six gold dragons if they find her " sister ".
 Brienne and  Podrick Payne  leave Maidenpool with Dick as their guide. During their travels Brienne is very suspicious of him and he once attempts to search her saddlebags for coin but is thwarted by flour Brienne has placed in them. On the way he regales Pod and Brienne with legends and tales of Crackclaw Point, including that of Ser  Clarence Crabb . Interestingly, he tells Brienne that they are all good  dragon men , up Crackclaw way. They pass the  Dyre Den . When Brienne remarks that Dick speaks of Lord  Eustace Brune  as if he knows him Dick answers that he might have, once.
 Dick leads Brienne to the ruined castle called the Whispers. Before entering the castle Brienne gives Dick her sword and unsheathes  Oathkeeper . The fool that Dick had sold the map to turns out to be  Shagwell  of the  Brave Companions , with his companions,  Timeon  and  Pyg . Dick points out that Shagwell was the fool he sold the map to. Shagwell soon kills Dick by smashing his face with his morningstar. A fight ensues and Brienne kills the other two  sellswords . She makes Shagwell dig a grave for Dick. Once the grave is finished, as she anticipated, Shagwell attempts to kill Brienne with a jagged chunk of rock, but fails and she slays him with a dagger, avenging Dick. Brienne then tosses two gold dragons down into Dick’s grave. When Pod asks her why she did that she explains to him that it was the reward she promised him for finding her the fool. [3] 
 
 Quotes 
 Nimble Dick will have a grave. He was a  Crabb . This is his place. [3] 
  –  Brienne of Tarth 
 
 
 I’m sorry that I never trusted you. I don't know how to do that anymore. [3] 
  –  Brienne of Tarth , as she placed Dick Crabb in his grave
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 14 , Brienne III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 9 , Brienne II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 20 , Brienne IV. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Dick_Crabb&oldid=212256 "  
 Categories :  House Crabb Nobles Characters from the Crownlands   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
