
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Español Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Doreah 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Doreah 
 Art by Foolish-Arethousa 
 Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Culture 
 Lysene Born 
In  278 or 279 AC [1] Died 
In  299 AC , at  Red waste Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Roxanne McKee TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Doreah  is a  Lysene  handmaiden to  Daenerys Targaryen . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is played by  Roxanne McKee .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 6   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Doreah 
 Doreah has fair hair and blue eyes. [2]  She is almost twenty. [1] 
 
 History 
 Magister Illyrio found Doreah in a pleasure house in  Lys .  Viserys Targaryen  bedded her while he was a guest at  Illyrio's manse . [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Doreah,  Irri , and  Jhiqui , are given to  Daenerys Targaryen  as wedding gifts to serve as her handmaidens. [1]  Doreah is given to Daenerys to instruct her in the "womanly" arts of love. [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After  Drogo 's death, Daenerys takes what remains of her  khalasar  and marches out into the  red waste  in search of a safe place. On the march, Doreah dies of a wasting disease. [4] 
 
 Quotes 
 "Once there were two  moons  in the sky, but one wandered too close to the sun and cracked from the heat. A thousand thousand  dragons  poured forth, and drunk the fire of the sun. That is why dragons  breathe flame ." [1] 
  - Doreah's tale to  Dany 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Doreah  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Doreah&oldid=207023 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Lys Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Slaves and freedmen Members of Drogo's khalasar   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
