
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Drogo 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Drogo 
 Artwork by Magali Villeneuve © 
 Alias 
Great Rider Great Khal Title 
 Khal Race 
 Dothraki Culture 
 Dothraki Born 
In or around  267 AC [1] Died 
In ~ 298/299 AC , at  Dothraki sea Spouse 
 Daenerys Targaryen Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (appendix) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Jason Momoa TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Drogo  is a powerful  khal  or warlord of the fearsome  Dothraki  nomads.  Daenerys Targaryen  is promised to him at the beginning of  A Song of Ice and Fire . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  Drogo is played by  Jason Momoa .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Khal Drogo 
 Like most Dothraki, Drogo has copper-colored skin, black hair, and black eyes. He is tall and muscular, and moves gracefully. He has a long, drooping moustache and a long braid hung with  tiny bells  that hangs down to his thighs, symbolizing his status among the Dothraki as an undefeated warlord.
 Drogo's favorite horse is an unnamed  lean red stallion , as it is not a Dothraki custom to give individual names to animals.
 
 History 
 Drogo's father was  Khal   Bharbo .  Cohollo  was pledged to the  khalakka , or prince, while he was still a child, and saved young Drogo's life from  sellswords  on one occasion. [2] 
 From an early age Drogo was an extraordinarily gifted warrior even among the fierce Dothraki; before the age of thirty he led a  khalasar  forty thousand strong, the largest on the  Dothraki sea . He has never been defeated in battle. Cohollo,  Qotho  and  Haggo  serve him as  bloodriders .
 Drogo owns a palace in the sacred Dothraki city of  Vaes Dothrak . He also possesses a  nine-towered manse  in  Pentos , given to him by the city's ruling  magisters  as part of their policy of bribing the Dothraki not to loot the city. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Khal Drogo - by Chris Dien © 
 Magister  Illyrio Mopatis , serving as patron to the exiled  Viserys  and  Daenerys Targaryen , arranges a marriage between Princess Daenerys and Khal Drogo during one of Drogo's visits to Pentos. In return for his bride, Drogo is to provide ten thousand Dothraki warriors for her brother's campaign to retake the  Iron Throne . [3] 
 The wedding takes place in the traditional Dothraki fashion, with Drogo's entire  khalasar  gathering in a field outside Pentos for a day-long feast, punctuated with several deadly fights and couples having intercourse in the open. In accordance with tradition, Drogo's bloodriders offer fine weapons - a whip, an  arakh , and a  dragonbone  bow - to the new  khaleesi , who then gives them to her husband. Drogo's own gift to his bride is a magnificent  silver mare .
 
   Drogo presents his bride gift,  the Silver , to Daenerys - by Amok © 
 Finally Drogo leads Daenerys off to consummate the marriage. A thirteen-year-old girl who had been abused by her brother for most of her life and had been given no say in the marriage, Daenerys is terrified of her bridegroom and expects to be raped. Despite his fierce reputation, however, Drogo proves to be a surprisingly considerate lover. Although he and Dany share no common language, he establishes that he understood the word "no," then begins touching her gently. He does not begin to have intercourse with her until Dany expresses her consent and initiates it. [4]  This tender wedding night set the tone for their marriage, which becomes a remarkably happy one.
 As Daenerys' new role as  khaleesi  takes her out of her abusive brother's control, she begns to leave behind the timid, passive girl she had been, blossoming into a strong, confident young woman and a natural leader. As Dany learns to speak the Dothraki language, Drogo proves a quick study at picking up the  Common Tongue  of  Westeros , though he retains a barbarous accent. He addresses Dany affectionately as "moon of my life," while she calls him "my sun and stars." Drogo treats her with respect and values her opinions; although he does not understand or share her objections to the traditional Dothraki practices of raping and enslaving conquered peoples, Drogo supports Dany when she orders his warriors to cease, delighted by his wife's growing courage. [5]  The pair grow to love one another deeply.
 
   Khal Drogo riding  his stallion  - by John Matson © 
 Drogo's relationship with Viserys, however, is not nearly as felicitous. While Daenerys is respectful of Dothraki culture and eager to learn about and embrace it, her brother shows nothing but contempt for the Dothraki "savages" and is increasingly impatient for the aid Khal Drogo had promised him. The issue finally came to a head when Viserys breaks the ancient taboo against bloodshed in  Vaes Dothrak  by drawing his blade and threatening the life of Daenerys and her unborn child, demanding his crown. Drogo cunningly sidesteps the prohibition against spilling blood in the sacred city by announcing that Viserys will have the crown of gold he deserves, then upends a pot of molten gold over his head, killing him.
 In Vaes Dothrak the women of the  dosh khaleen  proclaim that Drogo and Daenerys's  unborn child  will be the  stallion who mounts the world , a prophesied leader in Dothraki legend. [6]  Drogo has little interest in invading Westeros, a land that holds nothing in particular that the Dothraki want and is located across the sea, which they have always feared. However, he reconsiders after an assassin tries to kill Dany and claim  Robert Baratheon 's reward. Enraged by the attempt on his wife's life, Drogo reaffirms his commitment to conquer the  Seven Kingdoms  for her sake and seat their son on the throne of her ancestors. [7]  He pillages several towns in  Lhazar  to harvest slaves to exchange for warships that will take his horde across the sea. While in Lhazar, Drogo's  khalasar  defeats the rival  khalasar  of Khal  Ogo . Drogo slays Ogo himself, but takes a wound to the chest. [5] 
 
   Drogo funeral Pyre. Art By Kim Pope, for  Game of Thrones 
 Though Drogo is unconcerned with his minor wound, Daenerys convinces him to let  Mirri Maz Duur , a Lhazareen  maegi  she had rescued, make him a poultice. The poultice itches, and Drogo tears it off, causing the wound to fester. Drogo's condition deteriorates until he falls from his horse, a symbolic event in Dothraki culture that indicates he is no longer fit to lead. As he lingers near death, Daenerys convinces Mirri Maz Duur to use her  blood magic  to preserve his life by sacrificing  his stallion . [8]  The  maegi  betrays her in revenge for the attack on her village, and the ritual only returns Drogo to a catatonic state, while causing their child to die in Daenerys' womb. Realizing that Drogo would never return to his former state, Dany smothers him with a pillow and builds him a funeral pyre as his  khalasar  breaks apart. She burns his body on the pyre along with Mirri Maz Duur and enters the flames with her petrified  dragon  eggs. The flames magically trade life for life, killing the  maegi  and hatching the three dragons while leaving Daenerys unharmed. [9] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Dany names her black hatchling dragon  Drogon  in honour of the memory of her husband.
 In  Vaes Tolorro , after talking with Ser  Jorah Mormont  about some of his past and his   second wife , Daenerys realises that he desires her. She also realises that she does not feel that way about him and her thoughts turn to Drogo. She thinks to herself,
 
 Khal Drogo had been her sun-and-stars, her first, and perhaps he must be her last. The  maegi   Mirri Maz Duur  had sworn she would never bear a living child, and what man would want a barren wife? And what man could hope to rival Drogo, who had died with his hair uncut and rode now through the night lands, the stars as his  khalasar ?  [10] 
 
 That night no ghosts trouble her sleep. She dreams of Drogo and the first ride they had taken together on the night they were wed. In the dream it is not horses they rode, but  dragons .  [10] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 In  Meereen  Dany closes her eyes and prays to the gods,
 
 Gods, you took Khal Drogo, who was my sun-and-stars. You took our valiant son before he drew breath. You have had your blood of me. Help me now, I pray you. Give me the wisdom to see the path ahead and the strength to do what I must to keep my children safe. 
 
 Before her wedding to  Hizdahr zo Loraq  in  Meereen   Daenerys Targaryen  thinks to herself that she should be eager with anticipation for her wedding and the night that is to follow. Dany remembers the night of her first wedding, when Khal Drogo had claimed her maidenhead beneath the stranger stars. She remembers how frightened she had been, and how excited. She asks herself will it be the same with Hizdahr? … but she knows in her heart that she is not the girl she was, and he is not her sun-and-stars.
 
 
 Quotes 
 ... my sun-and-stars made a queen of me, but if he had been a different man, it might have been much otherwise. [11] 
 
 – Daenerys, to  Arstan Whitebeard 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Drogo  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 61 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 46 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 54 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 64 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 72 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 
 v d e 
Royal consorts in  Westeros Targaryens 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Visenya Targaryen   (1–37) 1 
 Rhaenys Targaryen  (1–10) 
 Alyssa Velaryon  (37–42) 1 
 Ceryse Hightower  (42–45) 
 Alys Harroway  (42–44) 
 Tyanna of Pentos  (42–48) 
 Elinor Costayne  (47–48) 1 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (47–48) 1 
 Jeyne Westerling  (47–48) 
 Alysanne Targaryen  (48–100) 
 Aemma Arryn  (103–106) 
 Alicent Hightower  (106–129) 1 
 Helaena Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Jaehaera Targaryen  (131–133) 
 Daenaera Velaryon  (?–157) 2 
 Daena Targaryen  (161) 3 
 Naerys Targaryen  (172–c. 179) 
 Mariah Martell  (184–209) 2 
 Aelinor Penrose  (209–221) 2 
 Betha Blackwood  (233–259) 2 
 Shaera Targaryen  (259–262) 2 
 Rhaella Targaryen  (262–283) 1 
 Consorts to claimants 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (42–43) 
 Daemon Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Drogo  (298) 
 Hizdahr zo Loraq  (300–present) 
 
 Baratheons 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Cersei Lannister  (283–298) 1 
 Margaery Tyrell  (300–present) 4 
 Consorts to rival kings 
 Selyse Florent  (299–present) 
 Margaery Tyrell  (299) 1 
 
 Independence movements 
 Greyjoys ,  Kings of the Iron Islands 
 Alannys Harlaw  (289, 299) 1 
 Starks ,  Kings in the North 
 Jeyne Westerling  (299) 1 
 
 
 1  Survived as Queen Dowager. 
 2  Unknown whether the Queen outlived her King. 
 3  Marriage was annulled. 
 4  Outlived one king, but subsequently married his successor. 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Drogo&oldid=207031 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Dothraki sea Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Khals Members of Drogo's khalasar Nobles Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
