
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Dywen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Dywen    
 
 Allegiance 
 Night's Watch Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Dywen  is a veteran  ranger  of the  Night's Watch .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Dywen has wooden teeth. [1]  He has a leathery, wrinkled face and gnarled hands. [2] 
 He is well renowned for his tracking ability within the Night's Watch. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 When  Jon Snow  and  Samwell Tarly  go to the  haunted forest  to swear their vows, Dywen is among the rangers who escort them. He is the first to notice the human hand that  Ghost  found. [3]  Dywen accompanies Lord Commander  Jeor Mormont  when he goes to look at the corpses of  Othor  and  Jafer Flowers  in the haunted forest. [4] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 According to Dywen, giant bears can be found  beyond the Wall . The Lord Commander Mormont doubts this. [5] 
 Dywen is among  the great ranging , the two hundred brothers of the Night's Watch that leave  Castle Black  to search for the  wildlings . [6]  While camped out on the  Fist of the First Men , Dywen senses the smell of cold, to the disbelief of his brothers with the exception of Jon, who also understands the cold as a sign of  wights  and the  Others . [2] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Dywen is one of those selected to die by  Chett 's conspirators on account of his excellent tracking abilities. [1]  Before the plot can begin, however, the  Fist of the First Men  is  attacked by wights . Dywen is among the survivors of the attack.
 Once at  Craster's Keep , Dywen is one of the few men that takes  Samwell Tarly  seriously when he tells the men he slew an  Other  with his  dragonglass  dagger. Dywen joins  Dolorous Edd  in making Sam and  Grenn  tell the Lord Commander the tale.  [7] 
 Dywen stays loyal to the Watch during the  mutiny at Craster's Keep , in which Lord Commander Mormont is slain. He is one of the few survivors of the ranging to make it all the way back to Castle Black. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Dywen and  Kedge Whiteye  report that two of the  Queen's Men , Ser  Richard Horpe  and Ser  Justin Massey , rode south along the  kingsroad . [9] 
 Dywen is one of the most outspoken rangers against the proposal to seal off the gates and other entrances of  the Wall  to prevent the  Others  and more  wildlings  from passing. He argues threats like  Tormund Giantsbane  and the  Weeper  would either cross the  Bridge of Skulls  or pass through an unseen gate, trapping the Night's Watch unnecessarily. He rallies most of the rangers under Jon, whereas the builders and stewards side with  Bowen Marsh . [10] 
 Lord Commander  Jon Snow  appoints Dywen as the leader of one of three groups of three rangers sent ranging. [11]  His group includes Ser  Alliser Thorne .  Melisandre  warns Jon soon after their departure that in her visions she has seen three of the nine rangers return eyeless, weeping blood. [11] 
 When the decapitated heads of the group led by  Black Jack Bulwer  turn up north of  Castle Black ,  Owen the Oaf  inquiries if Dywen was among the casualties. Jon asks Melisandre if she has also seen the surviving six rangers, including Dywen, in her visions. Melisandre reveals she has not seen their fates just yet. [12] 
 
 Quotes 
 No man in  Castle Black  knew the woods as well as Dywen did, the trees and streams, the plants that could be eaten, the ways of predator and prey. [11] 
  - thoughts of  Jon Snow 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 34 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 52 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 6 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 13 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 33 , Samwell II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 7 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 17 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 31 , Melisandre I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Dywen&oldid=212358 "  
 Categories :  Members of the Night's Watch Rangers of the Night's Watch Characters from Westeros   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
