
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Elia Martell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Elia Martell  
 Elia Martell, art by Elalendi ©. 
 Alias 
Elia of Dorne Title 
Princess Allegiance 
 House Martell House Targaryen Culture 
 Dornishmen Born 
In  256 AC  or  257 AC [1] , at  Sunspear [2] Died 
In  283 AC [1] , at  King's Landing [3] Spouse 
Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Princess  Elia Nymeros Martell , also known simply as  Elia Martell [4] [5] [6] [7] [8]  or  Elia of Dorne [5] [3] [9] [10]  was a  Dornish  princess from  House Martell . She was married to the crown prince,  Rhaegar Targaryen , and by him birthed  Rhaenys  and  Aegon . Elia was raped and murdered by Ser  Gregor Clegane  in the  sack of King's Landing  during  Robert's Rebellion .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early years 
 2.2   Marriage 
 2.3   Robert's Rebellion 
 2.4   Consequences to Elia's murder 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Elia 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Elia Martell 
 Elia Martell was said to be beautiful, [11]  slender, [2]  with black eyes, and a flat chest. [12]  She always had a delicate health, [2] [5]  having been born a month premature, [13]  which did not permit her much travel in her youth. [5]  According to  Barristan Selmy , Elia was a gentle, good, and gracious lady, but he also describes her as frail, due to her delicate health. [14] [15]  He also says she was kind and clever, with a sweet wit. [16] 
 
 History 
 Early years 
 Elia Martell was the fourth child and first daughter born to the ruling  Princess of Dorne , and the second child to live past infancy. She was born a month premature, and her older brother  Doran  did not expect her to live, when he learned about her birth; she survived, however, though her health was always fragile thereafter. [13]  During her youth she was very close to her younger brother,  Oberyn , [17]  to whom she was only one year apart. [13] 
 When Elia reached the age of marriage, she and her brother Oberyn, together with their mother and their mother's consort, traveled from  Dorne  to several potential suitors for both Elia and Oberyn. Amongst the places they visited were  Starfall , the  Arbor ,  Oldtown , the  Shield Islands ,  Crakehall , and finally  Casterly Rock . Oberyn mocked all Elia's suitors. In Oldtown, Elia met  Baelor Hightower , whom she liked most of all her suitors. She had been half in love with him, until he farted in the presence of both her and Oberyn, leading to Oberyn naming him "Baelor Breakwind". Elia could not look at him without laughing afterwards. [5] 
 Elia's mother had known Lady  Joanna Lannister  from the time they both served as ladies in waiting to Queen  Rhaella Targaryen . Despite having learned of Joanna's death in  childbirth , in  273 AC , during their stay at  Oldtown , the Martells traveled onwards to  Casterly Rock . Oberyn Martell believes that his mother had planned with Joanna to marry either Elia or Oberyn to one of Joanna's twins,  Jaime  and  Cersei , since there had been an empty cabin on their ship, meant for someone of high birth. Waiting until it was decent, Elia's mother eventually broached the subject of marriage to Lord  Tywin Lannister , first suggesting a match between Cersei and Oberyn, next a match between Elia and Jaime. Tywin refused both matches brusquely, informing her how Cersei was meant to marry Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen , and suggesting the new-born  Tyrion  as betrothed to Elia instead, which was taken as an insult. [5] [17] [18] 
 
 Marriage 
 Several years later, Elia's mother was able to arrange her marriage to Prince Rhaegar. In early  279 AC , Elia and Rhaegar were betrothed. They married a year later, in  280 AC , in a great ceremony at the  Great Sept of Baelor  in  King's Landing . [6]  They moved to  Dragonstone  shortly after their  wedding , where later in  280 AC , Rhaegar and Elia's first child was born,  Rhaenys . When the baby was presented to Rhaegar's parents at court, Queen  Rhaella  embraced her granddaughter warmly, but King  Aerys  refused to touch or hold the child and complained that she  "smells Dornish" . Rhaegar and Elia's second child,  Aegon , was born near the new year of  282 AC . [6] [19] 
 Their marriage — though not romantic — seemed happy, although Elia's health, which had always been problematic, remained fragile. [14]  Elia was bedridden for half a year after giving birth to Rhaenys, and giving birth to Aegon nearly killed her. Following Aegon's birth, the  maesters  told Rhaegar that Elia would bear no more children. [20] 
 
   Princess Elia Martell - illustration by Elia Fernandez ©. 
 Elia attended the  tourney at Harrenhal  in  281 AC , during the year of the false spring, together with her husband, Prince  Rhaegar , and her father-in-law, King  Aerys II Targaryen . Rhaegar won the tournament, and was to crown the  queen of love and beauty . However, he passed over Elia, and crowned Lady  Lyanna Stark  of  Winterfell  instead. [14]  Elia's reaction to the event remains unknown. At the start of the next year, Rhaegar left Elia and their newborn son  Aegon  on  Dragonstone , and took to the road with several companions. Not long thereafter, Rhaegar disappeared with Lyanna, [19]  and this event was one of the events which sparked  Robert's Rebellion . According to Rhaegar's younger brother,  Viserys , Rhaegar was simply not happy with his marriage. He believes that, if Rhaegar had been happy with Elia, he would not have needed Lyanna. [14]   George R.R. Martin  has described Elia's relationship to Rhaegar as  "complex" . [21] 
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 Main article:  Robert's Rebellion 
 Elia's elder brother the  Prince of Dorne ,  Doran Martell , had been furious at Elia's mistreatment, and thus was slow to lend aid to  House Targaryen  during the war. Preparing to battle the rebels, King  Aerys II Targaryen  threatened Elia's uncle, Prince  Lewyn Martell  of the  Kingsguard , gracelessly reminding him that he held Elia and her young children. Lewyn took control of the ten thousand  Dornishmen  who had eventually been sent to aid the Targaryens, and accompanied Elia's husband, Rhaegar, to fight in the  battle of the Trident . Lewyn and Rhaegar both died at the  Trident , and King Aerys, due to his paranoia, believed that Prince Lewyn must have betrayed Rhaegar during the battle. As a consequence, he kept Elia and both of her children in  King's Landing  as hostages against possible  Dornish  betrayal. [22] [23] 
 
   Prince  Rhaegar  and Princess Elia's final goodbye, by Denkata5698 ©. 
 For most of the rebellion,  House Lannister  had remained neutral, but after the battle of the Trident, Lord  Tywin Lannister  and twelve thousand of his  westermen  approached the capital. King Aerys opened the gates to them, mistaking them for allied reinforcements. Instead they began to  sack the city  in the name of King  Robert . [24]  Ser  Jaime Lannister  later recollected that as he himself was murdering Aerys to prevent the  wildfire plot , Ser  Gregor Clegane  and Ser  Amory Lorch  were scaling the walls of  Maegor's Holdfast , while Lord  Eddard Stark  was leading his own forces through the city gates. [10]  Elia's daughter, Princess  Rhaenys , was killed by Ser Amory after breaking the door down; he dragged the screaming toddler from under her father's bed and stabbed her over fifty times. [25]  Ser Gregor Clegane murdered Elia's son, Prince  Aegon , in front of her by smashing his head against a wall. He then raped and killed her by crushing her head. [5] [3] 
 
 Consequences to Elia's murder 
 Although Ser  Gregor Clegane  involvement is common knowledge at  Casterly Rock , [26]  the  official histories  (written by the victors) records that it is not known who murdered Princess  Rhaenys  in her bed, or who smashed the infant Prince  Aegon's  head against a wall and killed Elia. Some rumors say King  Aerys II  had commanded it when he learned that  Tywin Lannister  had taken up  Robert's  cause, while others suggest that Elia did it herself for fear of what would happen to her children in the hands of her dead husband's enemies. [27] 
 However, according to Tywin Lannister himself, he thought the deaths of Elia's children had been necessary to prove the loyalty of House Lannister to the rebel cause after his neutrality, so he directly ordered them killed. Tywin claims, however, that he had never ordered the rape, and that Elia, by herself, had been nothing, stating that her death had been unnecessary. He claims that he most likely had neglected to mention her when giving orders to Gregor Clegane, and that Clegane had killed her because he had not explicitly been told by Tywin to spare her. [25]  Elia's younger brother, Prince  Oberyn , however, believes that Tywin had Elia and her children killed as revenge for the slight he suffered when Aerys II refused the marriage of his son and heir, Rhaegar, to his daughter,  Cersei , marrying Elia, whom Tywin had refused for his own heir, to Rhaegar instead. [5] 
 The Martells were enraged by the murder of Elia and her children. Oberyn wanted to continue the war and champion the cause of Prince  Viserys Targaryen , the only surviving son of King Aerys II Targaryen. Secret messages were sent, but the new  Hand of the King , Lord  Jon Arryn , travelled to  Sunspear , where he returned the body of Prince  Lewyn Martell , and spoke with Prince Doran, ending all talks of war. [25]  However,  Doran Martell , the  Prince of Dorne , claims he has been working on the downfall of Tywin since the day he was told about the fates of Elia and her children. [28] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Princess Elia Martell, by LyaStark ©. 
 In the  black cells   Varys  tells Lord  Eddard Stark  that in  Dorne , the  Martells  still brood on the murder of Princess Elia and her babes. [4] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister  has a nightmare involving Elia's husband, Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . He stands between Jaime's deceased sworn brothers of the  Kingsguard  and burns with a cold light, now white, now red, now dark. He tells Jaime:
 
 I left my wife and children in your hands. 
 
 Jaime replies to Rhaegar that he never thought  his father  would hurt them. [29] 
 Prince  Oberyn Martell  arrives in  King's Landing , asking for  justice  for Elia and her children. [17] [25]  When  Tyrion Lannister  stands on trial for  the murder  of King  Joffrey I Baratheon  and learns his adversary in a  trial by battle  will be Ser  Gregor Clegane , Oberyn sees an opportunity for vengeance for Elia and champions Tyrion. [30]  He extracts a confession from Clegane after mortally wounding him, but Gregor takes advantage of Oberyn letting his guard down, and kills him. [5] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 It is revealed that Prince  Doran Martell  has been plotting secretly to restore the  Targaryens  and revenge himself on Lord  Tywin Lannister , whom he and his brother, Oberyn, held responsible for the murders of Elia and her children. [28] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Daenerys Targaryen  says to Ser  Barristan Selmy  that he saw her brother  Rhaegar  wed; she asks him to tell her if Rhaegar wed for love or duty. Barristan hesitates and says:
 
 Princess Elia was a good woman, Your Grace. She was kind and clever, with a gentle heart and a sweet wit. I know the prince was very fond of her. 
 
 Dany thinks to herself that the word  "fond"  speaks volumes, but Barristan compares their marriage positively with that of her own  father  and  mother , who were not fond of each other when they wed. He says that the  Seven Kingdoms  in turn paid dearly for this lack of affection. [16] 
 Jon Connington  believes that Elia was not worthy of Rhaegar. [20]  Ser  Barristan Selmy  thinks that Elia's looks could never match those of her lady-in-waiting,  Ashara Dayne , next to whom the Dornish princess was  "a kitchen drab" . [15] 
 
 Quotes about Elia 
   Princess Elia's last moments, by Achen089 ©. 
 Daenerys:  ... that was  the tourney  when he crowned  Lyanna Stark  as  queen of love and beauty ! Princess Elia was there, his wife, and yet  my brother  gave the crown to the  Stark  girl, and later stole her away from  her betrothed . How could he do that? Did the Dornish woman treat him so ill? 
 Barristan:  It is not for such as me to say what might have been in your brother’s heart, Your Grace. The Princess Elia was a good and gracious lady, though her health was ever delicate. [14] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  and  Barristan Selmy 
 
 
 I grant you, it was done too brutally. Elia need not have been harmed at all, that was sheer folly. [25] 
  –  Tywin Lannister , to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Justice is in short supply  this side  of the  mountains . There has been none for Elia,  Aegon  or  Rhaenys . [30] 
  –  Oberyn Martell 
 
 
 You raped her. You murdered her. You killed her children. [5] 
  –  Oberyn Martell , to  Gregor Clegane 
 
 
 If you die before you say her name, ser, I will hunt you through all  seven hells . [5] 
  –  Oberyn Martell , to  Gregor Clegane 
 
 
 It must have been  the madness  that led  Aerys  to refuse Lord  Tywin 's  daughter  and take his  son  instead, whilst marrying his own  son  to a feeble  Dornish  princess with black eyes and a flat chest. [12] 
  –  Cersei Lannister 
 Family 
 
                                                                                     
     Princess of Dorne   Unknown           Lewyn           
                                                                                                                                                   
 Doran   Mellario   Mors   Olyvar   Elia   Rhaegar Targaryen         Various women   Oberyn   Ellaria Sand                 
                                                                                                                                                                                   
 Arianne   Quentyn   Trystane           Rhaenys Targaryen   Aegon Targaryen   Obara Sand     Tyene Sand     Elia Sand     Dorea Sand       
                                                                                           
                                                     Nymeria Sand   Sarella Sand   Obella Sand   Loreza Sand   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   See the  Elia Martell  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Elia Martell. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑  5.00   5.01   5.02   5.03   5.04   5.05   5.06   5.07   5.08   5.09   5.10     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , Dorne: Dorne against the Dragons. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 11 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2   14.3   14.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 ↑   ConCarolinas May 30 - June 1, 2014,  Q&A 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  The Baratheon Brothers (September 11, 1999) 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1   25.2   25.3   25.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The End. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Elia_Martell&oldid=218039 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Dorne Noblewomen Casualties of Robert's Rebellion House Martell Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Characters killed by Gregor Clegane Characters killed by Tywin Lannister   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
