
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Emmon Frey 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Emmon Frey  
 
 Alias 
Emm Title 
Lord of  Riverrun Allegiance 
 House Frey House Frey of Riverrun House Lannister Born 
In  237 AC  or  238 AC [1] Spouse 
 Genna Lannister Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Ser  Emmon Frey  is a  knight  from  House Frey  and is the second son of Lord  Walder Frey  and  Perra Royce . He is married to  Genna Lannister , with whom he has four sons:  Cleos ,  Lyonel ,  Tion , and  Walder . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Emmon 
 5   Quotes about Emmon 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Emmon Frey 
 Emmon is a small man, thin and nervous and mostly bald. The sullen Emmon has a prominent  apple in his throat . [2] 
 
 History 
 Emmon went to  Casterly Rock  at the age of fourteen to marry the boisterous  Genna Lannister , who was half his age. [2]  The match by Genna's father, Lord  Tytos Lannister , outraged Lord  Roger Reyne  and Genna's brother, the ten-year-old  Tywin Lannister . [2]  Emmon has since been fearful of Tywin, now the Lord of Casterly Rock and  Warden of the West . [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Emmon attends the  Hand's tourney  in  King's Landing  with five of his brothers. [3] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Although  House Frey  allied with  House Tully  and  House Stark  at the onset of the  War of the Five Kings , Emmon took the side of  House Lannister . [4]  As part of the deal between Lord  Tywin Lannister  and Lord  Walder Frey , Emmon is to be given the Tully lands and titled Lord of  Riverrun , as the crown has declared the Tullys forfeit to all land and titles in the aftermath of the  Red Wedding . [5]  Emmon is to receive Riverrun once Ser  Brynden Tully  yields the castle. [6] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Emmon is among the Freys at the  siege of Riverrun , encamping south of the  Red Fork , and he insists that Ser  Ryman Frey  hang the captive Lord  Edmure Tully , to no avail. [2]  For a time Emmon believes he is the new overlord of the  riverlands  until Ser  Jaime Lannister  points out that honor is held by  Petyr Baelish , the new  Lord Paramount of the Trident . [2]  Emmon also objects to any assaults on the castle by Jaime or Ser  Daven Lannister . [7] 
 Although Jaime resolves the siege, Emmon is furious when Brynden the Blackfish escapes through the River Gate. Emmon, now age sixty [2]  and Lord of  House Frey of Riverrun , holds Riverrun with a garrison of two hundred men. He pontificates to the castle's servants, and  Tom of Sevenstreams  decides to remain in Riverrun to sing for the Frey lord. [8] 
 
 Quotes by Emmon 
 Emmon : For  a son  to raise his hand against  a father . Monstrous. These are dark days in  Westeros . I fear for us all with Lord  Tywin  gone. 
 Genna : You feared for us all when he was here. [2] 
  - Emmon and  Genna Lannister 
 
 
 Emmon : Ser Jaime,  your lord father's  faith in me was well placed, you shall see. I mean to be firm but fair with my new vassals.  Blackwood  and  Bracken ,  Jason Mallister ,  Vance  and  Piper , they shall learn that they have a just overlord in Emmon Frey.  My father  as well, yes. He is the  Lord of the Crossing , but I am the Lord of  Riverrun . A son has a duty to obey his father, true, but a bannerman must obey his overlord. 
 Jaime : You are not his overlord, ser. Read your parchment. You were granted Riverrun with its lands and incomes, no more.  Petyr Baelish  is the  Lord Paramount of the Trident . Riverrun will be subject to the rule of  Harrenhal . [2] 
  - Emmon and  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Emmon : I rule in  Riverrun , by  the king's  own decree, I— 
 Genna : Emmon, the  Lord Commander  knows about the king's decree. Ser  Edmure  knows about the king's decree. The stableboys know about the king's decree. [8] 
  - Emmon and  Genna Lannister 
 Quotes about Emmon 
 Cleo  was his  Aunt Genna's  son by that dullard Emmon Frey, who had lived in terror of Lord  Tywin Lannister  since the day he wed his sister. When Lord  Walder Frey  had brought the  Twins  into  the war  on the side of  Riverrun , Ser Emmon had chosen his wife's allegiance over his father's.  Casterly  Rock got the worst of that bargain, Jaime reflected. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 And our own Ser Emmon ... no, Lord Emmon, Seven save us, must not forget his new title . . . our Lord of  Riverrun  does nought but try to tell me how to run  the siege . He wants me to take the castle without damaging it, since it is now his lordly seat. [2] 
  -  Daven Lannister  to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Emmon Frey was a fretful man with nervous hands. He might have weighed ten stone ... but only wet, and clad in mail. He was a weed in wool, with no chin to speak of, a flaw that the prominence of the apple in his throat made even more absurd. [2] 
  - thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Genna  has played her part as well. Jaime remembered many a feast where Emmon sat poking at his food sullenly whilst his wife made ribald jests with whatever household knight had been seated to her left, their conversations punctuated by loud bursts of laughter. She gave Frey four sons, to be sure. At least she says they are his. No one in  Casterly Rock  had the courage to suggest otherwise, least of all Ser Emmon. [2] 
  - thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 Family 
 
   Walder   Perra Royce             
                           
       Emmon   Genna Lannister                 
                                                                                                       
   Cleos   Jeyne Darry   Lyonel   Melesa Crakehall   Tion   "Red" Walder           
                                   
   Tywin   Willem           
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Emmon Frey  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.00   2.01   2.02   2.03   2.04   2.05   2.06   2.07   2.08   2.09   2.10   2.11   2.12     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 1 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 
 
   
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House_Frey .  
The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House_Frey.  
As with the A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  GNU Free Documentation License .
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Emmon_Frey&oldid=207272 "  
 Categories :  House Frey House Frey of Riverrun Characters from the Riverlands Knights Lords of Riverrun Nobles Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
