
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Euron Greyjoy 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Euron Greyjoy   
 Euron Greyjoy by Bella Bergolts © Biographical Information Full Name 
Euron Greyjoy, the Third of His Name Since the Grey King Alias 
Crow's Eye Euron Crow's Eye Other Titles 
 Iron King King of the Isles and the North     King of Salt and Rock Son of the Sea Wind Lord Reaper of Pyke Captain of the  Silence Born in 
or between  256 AC  and  268 AC [1] , at  Pyke Culture 
 ironborn Family Royal House 
 House Greyjoy Predecessor 
 Balon Greyjoy Father 
Lord  Quellon Greyjoy Mother 
Lady of House Sunderly References Books 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appendix) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned)  The Winds of Winter  (appears) Played by 
 Pilou Asbæk TV series 
 Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Euron Greyjoy , known as  Crow's Eye [2]  and  Euron Crow's Eye , [3]  is a member of  House Greyjoy  and is the eldest of Lord  Balon Greyjoy 's younger brothers. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Pilou Asbæk .
 Euron is captain of the  Silence , a ship crewed entirely by mutes whose tongues he ripped out. Euron's personal coat-of-arms is a red eye with a black pupil beneath a black iron crown supported by two crows. [4] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Euron 
 5   Quotes about Euron 
 6   Family 
 7   See also 
 8   References 
 9   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Euron Greyjoy 
 Euron is pale and handsome with black hair and a dark beard. He wears a patch over his left eye, and is nicknamed Crow's Eye. According to Euron's nephew,  Theon Greyjoy , the patch conceals a "black eye shining with malice". [5]  His right eye is as blue as summer sky and is regarded as his "smiling eye". In addition, his lips are a pale blue, due to his propensity to drink  shade of the evening .
 Euron is a wildly unpredictable man, known for his delight in playing vicious mind games and waging psychological warfare on anyone around him. He is hated by his brothers for this reason. A skilled warrior and manipulator, Euron is cunning, shrewd and ruthless.
 Despite his dangerous and mercurial nature Euron has little trouble in drawing men to his service, especially freaks and fools. [6]  While most ironborn captains keep the lion's share of plunder, Euron takes almost nothing for himself. [7] 
 
 History 
 Euron and his two brothers,  Balon  and  Victarion , convinced their father, Lord  Quellon Greyjoy , to join  Robert's Rebellion , and they raided the  Reach  late in the war. After Quellon was killed in a  battle at the Mander , however, the new Lord Balon returned to the  Iron Islands  with his younger brothers. [3] [8] 
 At the outset of  Greyjoy's Rebellion , Euron concocted a plan to sail into  Lannisport  and  burn the Lannister fleet  at anchor. The  Iron Fleet , commanded by Euron's brother  Victarion , followed the plan and successfully destroyed the  westerlands ' naval force. [9] 
 Some time after the war, in  297 AC , Euron was sent away from the Iron Islands by Lord Balon as punishment for seducing or raping  Victarion's salt wife , and he was warned never to return while Balon was alive. Victarion wanted to kill Euron and would have if not for the taboo against  kinslaying . [3]  Euron has several  bastard children  but does not have any regard for any of them. One such boy is ten years old with woolly hair and skin the color of mud. [10] 
 Since Euron's banishment, the  Silence  has sailed, pillaged, and raped all over the  known world . Euron boasts to have travelled to  Asshai  and even sailed the  Smoking Sea  and walked the smoking ruins of  Valyria . [11]  Euron also claims to have owned a  dragon egg  which a  Myrish  wizard was unable to hatch. [10]  The Crow's Eye alleges he tossed the egg into the sea during one of his foul moods. [10] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Having returned to  Pyke ,  Theon Greyjoy  notes that his uncle Euron's ship,  Silence , is not in the fleet gathered at  Lordsport . [12] [9] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 News comes to  Robb Stark ,  King in the North , via the captain of the  Myraham  that  Balon Greyjoy ,  King of the Isles and the North , fell to his death from  Pyke . Euron returned to Lordsport and claimed the  Seastone Chair . Lord  Sawane Botley  objected to his claim, however, so Euron had him drowned in a cask of seawater. [13] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   King Euron Greyjoy with  Falia  feasting in  Oakenshield Castle  - by Mathia Arkoniel © 
 Aeron Greyjoy  is informed that his brother, Euron, returned to the  Iron Islands  the day after Balon's death. [3]  The timing of his return is questioned by some. [14]  Euron brags to the ironborn to have reaved all over the world during his exile, including a trip to the feared ruins of  Valyria . [11]  According to a semi-canon source, he captured and holds hostage four  warlocks  of  Qarth , including  Pyat Pree , [15]  and seizes their  dragon horn . [16] 
 At the  kingsmoot  at  Old Wyk  called by Aeron, Euron promises to conquer all of  Westeros  for the  ironborn  using  dragons , which he claims he can bind to his will with the dragon horn. Although Aeron considers Euron to be a godless man, he is elected king, besting his niece  Asha , Victarion, and other contenders. [11]  Euron has Lord  Baelor Blacktyde  killed when the man refuses to accept him as his king, taking Baelor's sable cloak as a trophy. [10] 
 Euron begins raids upon the  Reach , intending to sell captives into  slavery  in  Essos . After the  taking of the Shields , Euron holds a victory's feast in  Oakenshield Castle  with the tied and gagged Lord  Humfrey Hewett  seated next to him. The Crow's Eye forces Humfrey's daughters and granddaughters to serve food and drink to the victorious ironborn. Euron takes Humfrey's bastard daughter,  Falia Flowers , as a bedmate and under her suggestion commands the noble born ladies to strip and serve his men naked. [10] 
 Euron weakens possible rivals by giving lands and titles to key followers of theirs. However, he fails to move the ironborn beyond raiding, as they are reluctant to embark on a dangerous journey in search of dragons after Lord  Rodrik Harlaw  points out all the hazards of such an endeavor. Euron sends Victarion and the  Iron Fleet  to find  Daenerys Targaryen , court her in his name, and bring her and her dragons to Westeros. [10] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Euron Greyjoy with a  dragon horn  - by Mathia Arkoniel © 
 Euron styles himself  King of the Isles and the North . [17]  He gives Victarion the  dragon horn  to take with him to  Meereen . Victarion again remembers that "Euron's gifts are poisoned" when he hears the  red priest   Moqorro  state that those who blow the horn die. [18] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Euron has his mutes capture Aeron Damphair after the kingsmoot. He forces Aeron to drink  shade of the evening , and the Damphair has visions of first Euron on a throne of skulls and later Euron as a kraken-like figure with tentacles on the  Iron Throne , with a woman by his side. Euron admits to causing the deaths of  Harlon ,  Robin , and Balon making him a  kinslayer . He also admits he expects the followers to which he granted the  Shield Islands  to fail to hold them, thus ridding himself of potential enemies.
 Prior to sailing against the  Redwyne fleet  and the ships of  House Hightower , Aeron sees Euron clad in  Valyrian steel  armor. Euron has Aeron and Falia, pregnant but tongueless, bound to the prow of the  Silence . Euron also orders his captains to bind the priests and septons he has kidnapped to the prows of their respective ships. [7] 
 
 Quotes by Euron 
 Godless?  Why,  Aeron , I am the godliest man ever to raise sail! You serve  one god , Damphair, but I have served ten thousand. From  Ib  to  Asshai , when men see  my  sails, they pray. [14] —Euron to  Aeron Greyjoy 
 
 
 We are the  ironborn , and once we were conquerors. Our writ ran everywhere the sound of the waves was heard.  My brother  would have be content with the cold and dismal  north ,  my niece  with even less ... but I shall give you  Lannisport .  Highgarden . The  Arbor .  Oldtown . The  riverlands  and the  Reach , the  kingswood  and the  rainwood ,  Dorne  and the  marches , the  Mountains of the Moon  and the  Vale of Arryn ,  Tarth  and the  Stepstones . I say we take it  all!  I say, we take  Westeros. [11] —Euron at the  kingsmoot 
 
 I am the storm, my lord. The first storm, and the last. [10] —Euron to  Rodrik Harlaw 
 
 Perhaps we can fly. All of us. How will we ever know unless we leap from some tall tower? No man ever truly knows what he can do unless he dares to leap. [10] —Euron to  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 Quotes about Euron 
 Lord  Balon's  eldest brother had never given up the  Old Way , even for a day. His  Silence , with its black sails and dark red hull, was infamous in every port from  Ibben  to  Asshai , it was said. [9] —thoughts of  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 He may be dead, and if he lives, why, he has spent so long at sea, he'd be half a stranger here. The  ironborn  would never seat a stranger in the  Seastone Chair . [9] —" Esgred " to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 Euron Greyjoy is no man’s notion of a king, if half of what  Theon  said of him was true. [13] — Robb Stark  to his bannermen 
 
 Tristifer : The Crow's Eye brought back monsters from the east ... aye, and  wizards  too. 
 Asha : Nuncle always had a fondness for freaks and fools.  My father  used to fight with him about it. Let the wizards call upon their gods.  The Damphair  will call on  ours , and drown them. [6] — Tristifer Botley  and  Asha Greyjoy 
 
 Balon  was mad,  Aeron  is madder, and Euron is the maddest of them all. [10] — Baelor Blacktyde  to  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 Euron's gifts are poisoned. [10] —thoughts of  Victarion Greyjoy 
 
 Tell the Crow's Eye he's afraid of  kinslaying  and he'll murder one of his own sons just to prove you wrong. [19] — Asha Greyjoy  to  Tristifer Botley 
 
 Moqorro : Others seek  Daenerys  too. Tyrion : Have you seen these others in your fires? Moqorro : Only their shadows. One most of all. A tall and twisted thing with one black eye and ten long arms, sailing on a sea of blood. [20] — Moqorro  and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 Family 
 
 Lady of  House Stonetree                           Quellon                                           Lady of  House Piper                                                                         
                     Lady of  House Sunderly                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                   
 Harlon   Quenton   Donel   Balon   Alannys Harlaw   Euron "Crow's Eye"   Victarion   Urrigon   Aeron "Damphair"   Robin         
                                                                                                         
                 Rodrik   Maron   Asha   Theon                 
 
 See also 
 See  Euron Greyjoy/Theories 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Euron Greyjoy  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 1 , The Prophet. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 45 , Samwell V. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Theon I 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 11 , The Kraken's Daughter. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   The Winds of Winter ,  The Forsaken 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Iron Islands: The Old Way and the New. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 24 , Theon II. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5   10.6   10.7   10.8   10.9     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 29 , The Reaver. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 19 , The Drowned Man. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 11 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 18 , The Iron Captain. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Euron Greyjoy. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Qarth. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 63 , Victarion I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 33 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Greyjoy . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Greyjoy. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 External links 
 Euron Greyjoy  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Euron_Greyjoy&oldid=218751 "  
 Categories :  House Greyjoy Ironborn Characters from the Iron Islands Exiles Kings of the Iron Islands Kings of the Isles and the North Kinslayers Monarchs Nobles Ship captains Pirates Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
