
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Tomard 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Tomard Alias 
Fat Tom Allegiance 
 House Stark Culture 
 northmen Born 
In or between  249 AC  and  253 AC [1] Died 
In  298 AC , at  King's Landing Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Tomard , better known as  Fat Tom , is a  guard  sworn to  House Stark . He is easy to fool. He gave  Arya Stark  the nickname "Arya Underfoot". [2]  He has a son,  TomToo . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 Tomard is fat with ginger-colored whiskers. He is affable, loyal, tireless and capable in a limited way. He is near fifty years old. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Tomard accompanies Lord  Eddard Stark  south to  King's Landing  when he is named  Hand of the King . He is named captain of the Stark guards in King's Landing after the death of  Jory Cassel  and after  Alyn 's departure with Lord  Beric Dondarrion . [4]  Tomard is slain by the  City Watch of King's Landing  in the throne room of the  Red Keep  when Eddard is arrested. [5] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Tomard  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 22 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Tomard&oldid=208834 "  
 Categories :  Captains of the guards Characters from the North House Stark guards Smallfolk Hidden category:  Characters without images   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
