
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Gendry 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Gendry 
 Gendry by  Amok © 
 Alias 
The Bull Ser Gendry of the  hollow hill Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 brotherhood without banners Born 
In  284 AC [1] , at  King's Landing Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Played by 
 Joe Dempsie TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 7 
 Gendry  is a blacksmith apprentice for master  Tobho Mott  in  King's Landing . When Gendry was old enough, an unknown lord paid his apprentice fee so he could learn to be a blacksmith; he does not know he is a  bastard  son of King  Robert I . [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by Joe Dempsie.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Gendry 
 5   Quotes about Gendry 
 6   Family Tree 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Gendry 
 Gendry is of a similar age to  Robb Stark . Tall and very muscled, he has blue eyes and thick, black hair. [2]  When he grows a beard, it is also thick and black. [3]  He is stubborn, and easily confused. [2] [3] 
 
 History 
   Gendry - by Henning Ludvigsen © 
 Gendry was born in King's Landing, and does not know who his father was. His mother was a worker at an alehouse, who died when he was still a young boy. All he remembers of her was that she had blond hair.  Tobho Mott , a master smith, took him on as an apprentice after being paid double the customary fee by a man who concealed his identity. [2]  It is possible that this man was  Varys , using one of his disguises.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Eddard Stark  recognizes that Gendry is  Robert Baratheon 's bastard. © FFG 
 When  Eddard Stark  investigates the death of  Jon Arryn , he meets several people who had met with Arryn shortly before his death, including Gendry. At once he sees the similarity with  Robert Baratheon  and recognizes that Gendry is his bastard. Eddard tells  Tobho Mott  that if Gendry ever shows interest in wielding a sword, he should send him to Eddard. Gendry has shown promise as a smith and made a helmet in the shape of a bull. Eddard compliments the helmet, offering to purchase it, but Gendry refuses, to the shame of the master smith. [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After Eddard Stark's fall and eventual execution, arrangements are made for  Yoren  of the the  Night's Watch  to take Gendry to  the Wall  with him. Gendry travels north with Yoren and thirty other recruits, including a disguised  Arya Stark ,  Lommy Greenhands ,  Hot Pie ,  Jaqen H'ghar ,  Rorge ,  Biter , and others. [4]  Not far from King's Landing they are stopped by several  gold cloaks , who demand that Yoren give up Gendry as he is wanted by Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister . Yoren refuses, and with his recruits chases off the gold cloaks. [5] 
 Later, near an  abandoned town  by the  God's Eye , the recruits are attacked by soldiers led by Ser  Amory Lorch . Yoren is killed and Gendry is one of the few to escape, along with Arya, Lommy, and Hot Pie. Whilst on reconnaissance with Arya, Gendry confronts her about being a girl. He eventually has the truth out of her and is subsequently embarrassed by how crass he had spoken to her when she was in fact highborn. Gendry is captured later by  soldiers  led by Ser  Gregor Clegane . The soldiers spare his life, since a smith is useful. [3]  After  Raff the Sweeting  kills Lommy, they are taken to  Harrenhal , where Gendry works as a smith. When Arya decides to escape from Harrenhal, however, she persuades Gendry and Hot Pie to join her. [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 While traveling in the direction of  Riverrun , Arya, Gendry, and Hot Pie are captured by the  brotherhood without banners . [7]  At the  Peach  in  Stoney Sept , Gendry declines sleeping with  Bella . [8]  Gendry is impressed with  Thoros of Myr 's description of the ideals of the brotherhood, and decides to join them. He is knighted by Lord  Beric Dondarrion , thus becoming Ser Gendry, knight of the  hollow hill . [9] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 While questing to find  Sansa Stark ,  Brienne of Tarth  encounters Gendry working as a smith at the  inn at the crossroads , and is shocked by his striking resemblance to  Renly Baratheon . At the inn, Brienne duels with  Rorge  and slays him, only to be savaged by  Biter . Gendry saves Brienne's life by driving a spear through Biter's neck. [10] 
 
 Quotes by Gendry 
 Arya : You're not my brother. 
 Gendry : That's right. I'm too bloody  lowborn  to be kin to m'lady high. 
 Arya : That's not the way I meant it. 
 
 Gendry : Yes it is. Go away. I want to drink this wine in peace. then maybe I'll go find that  black-haired girl  and ring her bell for her. [8] 
  -  Arya Stark  and Gendry
 Quotes about Gendry 
 Ned studied the shape of his jaw, the eyes like blue ice. "Yes," he thought, " I see it ."  [2] 
  - thoughts of  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 You saw the boy. Such a strong boy. Those hands of his, those hands were made for hammers. He had such promise, I took him on without a fee. [2] 
  -  Tobho Mott  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Gendry had his own secret, though even he didn't seem to know what it was. [11] 
  - thoughts of  Arya Stark 
 
 
 Bella : Don't he like girls? 
 Arya : He's just stupid. He likes to polish helmets and beat on swords with hammers. [8] 
  -  Bella  and  Arya Stark 
 Family Tree 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [12]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [12]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Gendry  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 19 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 1 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 5 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 64 , Arya X. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 13 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 29 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 39 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 37 , Brienne VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 3 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Gendry&oldid=207894 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon Smallfolk Bastards Knights Characters from the Crownlands Recruits of the Night's Watch Members of the Brotherhood Without Banners House Lannister retainers House Bolton retainers Blacksmiths Outlaws   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
