
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Gerold Dayne 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Gerold Dayne 
 Darkstar by Bella Bergolts © 
 Alias 
Darkstar Title 
 Ser Knight of High Hermitage [1] Allegiance 
 House Dayne of High Hermitage Race 
 Dornishmen Culture 
 Dorne Born 
In or between  270 AC  and  274 AC [2] Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Ser  Gerold Dayne , known as  Darkstar , is the  Knight of High Hermitage .  His house  is a cadet branch of the  Daynes  of  Starfall .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.3   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Gerold 
 5   Quotes about Gerold 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Gerold Dayne 
 Gerold is in his late twenties. [3]  A handsome man, he has a clean-shaven face with an aquiline nose, high cheekbones, dark  purple eyes , and a strong jaw. Gerold has collar-length thick silver hair, divided by a streak of midnight black. [4] 
 Despite his beauty and valor, Gerold is a cruel man with angry eyes. He is jealous of his famous cousin, the late Ser  Arthur Dayne , who was the  Sword of the Morning . Darkstar wields a longsword. He prefers to drink unsweetened lemonwater instead of  summerwine . [4] 
 
 History 
 At some point, Gerold was one of the lovers of  Arianne Martell . [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Darkstar by Mathia Arkoniel © 
 Gerold allies himself with Princess  Arianne Martell  when she attempts to crown Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  in place of her younger brother, King  Tommen I Baratheon . At  Shandystone , Arianne admits to her other conspirators that she only included Darkstar for his fighting prowess and his keep,  High Hermitage . Gerold is skeptical of Arianne's plan to provoke Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister . [4] 
 Arianne's party is surprised at the  Greenblood  by  Areo Hotah , who orders them to surrender. Gerold agrees since they are outnumbered, but Myrcella's bodygyard, Ser  Arys Oakheart  of the  Kingsguard , rides to his death in an attack on Areo. Amidst the fighting, Gerold attempts to kill Myrcella. [4]  Her horse rears, however, and Darkstar succeeds only in slicing off her ear and scarring her face. [4]  He escapes Areo's guards by riding into the sands of Dorne. [5] 
 Taken to  Sunspear , Maester  Caleotte  saves Myrcella's life. Arianne ponders if her plan had been betrayed by Darkstar or another of her conspirators. [5] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Darkstar by Sacha Angel Diener © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Ser  Balon Swann  arrives at Sunspear with the  Mountain's skull . Under Arianne's instruction, Myrcella has blamed Darkstar for the death of Arys, not Areo. [6] [7]  Arianne's father  Doran , the  Prince of Dorne , sends  Obara Sand  with Balon to hunt Gerold at  High Hermitage . [6] [8]  Cersei thinks that Darkstar is a catspaw of her brother,  Tyrion Lannister , whom she already blames for the deaths of her first son, King  Joffrey I Baratheon , and her father, Lord  Tywin Lannister . [7] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 While traveling to the  stormlands , Arianne and Ser  Daemon Sand  discuss Gerold. Arianne feels that Obara and Areo can kill Darkstar, although Daemon is skeptical. Arianne is regretful for ever trusting Gerold, thinking that he was so handsome she had not believed half the stories told about him. [9] 
 
 Quotes by Gerold 
   Darkstar, by Mathia Arkoniel 
 If I led a quarter of a million men to death, would they call me Gerold the Great? I shall remain Darkstar, I think. At least it is mine own. [4] 
  - Gerold to  Garin 
 
 
 I was weaned on venom, Dalt. Any viper takes a bite of me will rue it. [4] 
 
 – Gerold to  Andrey Dalt 
 
 
 Myrcella : Are you the  Sword of the Morning  now? 
 Gerold : Men call me Darkstar, and I am of the night. [4] 
 
 –  Myrcella Baratheon  and Gerold
 
 Quotes about Gerold 
 He is highborn enough to make a worthy consort, she thought.  Father  would question my good sense, but our children would be as beautiful as  dragonlords . If there was a handsomer man in  Dorne , she did not know him. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Arianne Martell 
 
 
 By tradition the  Kingsguard  were the finest knights in all the  Seven Kingdoms  ... but Darkstar was Darkstar. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Arianne Martell 
 
 
 You were a fool to make him part of this. Darkstar is the most dangerous man in  Dorne . You and he have done us all great harm. [5] 
  -  Doran Martell  to  Arianne Martell 
 
 
 Ser Gerold is more a viper than your uncle ever was. Prince  Oberyn  could see that he was poison, he said so more than once. It's just a pity that he never got around to killing him. [9] 
  -  Daemon Sand  to  Arianne Martell 
 Poison, yes. Pretty poison, though. [9] 
  - thoughts of  Arianne Martell 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑   See the  Gerold Dayne  calculation. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Gerold Dayne. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.7   4.8   4.9     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 21 , The Queenmaker. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Gerold_Dayne&oldid=218789 "  
 Categories :  House Dayne of High Hermitage Dornishmen Characters from Dorne Knights Landed knights Members of Arianne Martell's plot Nobles Outlaws Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
