
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jon Umber 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 (Redirected from  Jon Umber (Greatjon) ) 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Jon Umber  
 Greatjon Umber by amok© 
 Alias 
The Greatjon Greatjon Umber Title 
Lord of the  Last Hearth Allegiance 
 House Umber Culture 
 Northmen Born 
At the  Last Hearth [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Clive Mantle TV series 
 Season 1 
 See also  Jon Umber (son of Jon)  or  Jon Umber (husband of Serena) 
 Jon Umber , known as  Greatjon Umber [2]  and  the Greatjon , [3]  is Lord of the  Last Hearth  and head of  House Umber , a vassal family to the  Starks  of  Winterfell . [4]  His eldest son, also named Jon, is called  the Smalljon . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  the Greatjon is played by  Clive Mantle . [5] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   Quotes by Greatjon 
 5   Quotes about Greatjon 
 6   References 
 7   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Jon Umber (Greatjon) 
 Jon is a large man, nearly seven feet tall. He is heavily muscled and is a formidable warrior.  Jaime Lannister  regards him as one of the strongest living men in  Westeros  when thinking of who could match him in a fight. [6] 
 The Greatjon is proud, boisterous, and fierce, and impressed only by those who earn his respect. He wields the biggest, ugliest greatsword that  Bran Stark  has ever seen, which makes it bigger than  Ice . [4]  Jon surprisingly has a decent singing voice. [7]  The Greatjon is a prodigious drinker. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Greatjon - by John Matson © 
 Jon leads his men when  Robb Stark  calls the bannermen of  House Stark  to  Winterfell . At first he challenges the young lord's authority, threatening to take his forces home if he is placed behind Lords  Halys Hornwood  or  Medger Cerwyn  in the order of march. After being called out by Robb, the Greatjon draws his sword, only to have the  direwolf   Grey Wind  knock the sword from his hands and bite off two fingers. Impressed with Robb's courage, the Greatjon makes a joke of it instead of becoming angry and becomes Robb's greatest champion. [4] 
 When the northern host splits at the  Twins , Greatjon goes south with Robb's force along with his son,  the Smalljon , leading the van of the army and participating in the battles of  the Whispering Wood  and  the Camps , where he sets fire to the Ser  Jaime Lannister 's siege towers. [8] [9]  After  Riverrun  is relieved and news of Lord  Eddard Stark 's death arrives, the Greatjon is the first to declare Robb the  King in the North . [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Lord Jon is present when  Robb Stark  explains his terms for peace with the  Iron Throne  in the Great Hall of  Riverrun . After participating in the  Battle of Oxcross , the Greatjon goes on to capture the gold mines at  Castamere ,  Nunn's Deep , and the  Pendric Hills . [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After Robb breaks his marriage contract with the  Freys , Greatjon Umber offers to make marriage contracts for his uncles,  Mors  and  Hother , in Robb's place. [3]  He leads the van on the march to the  Twins  for the wedding of Lord  Edmure Tully . In Robb's plan to retake  Moat Cailin  from the  ironborn , the Greatjon is given command of the van and told to make his diversionary attack convincing, as Robb's own force is to circle behind Moat Cailin with the guidance of the  crannogmen .
 During the wedding feast at the Twins, the Greatjon drunkenly sings " The Bear and the Maiden Fair " while musicians perform " Flowers of Spring ". He carries Edmure's bride,  Roslin Frey , over his shoulder and takes her from the hall as part of the  bedding   customs . [7] 
 In preparation for the Freys' betrayal of House Stark,  Petyr ,  Merrett , and Ser  Whalen Frey  were tasked with getting the Greatjon too drunk to fight. Despite consuming enough alcohol to kill three normal men, when the  Red Wedding  begins eight men are needed to subdue the Greatjon in chains. He takes the sword of the first man to attack him, kills one, wounds two others, and bites off half the ear of Ser  Leslyn Haigh . [11]  His son and heir,  the Smalljon , is slain during the massacre. [7] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 The Greatjon is held captive at the Twins. [12]  Following the  siege of Riverrun , Jaime informs Ser  Edwyn Frey  and  Walder Rivers  that the King  Tommen I Baratheon  requires the transfer of all captives taken by House Frey in the Red Wedding. [13] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 With the Greatjon still a captive of the Freys, a portion of  House Umber , led by his uncle  Hother Whoresbane , grudgingly swears fealty to  House Bolton , though according to Lord  Roose Bolton  their loyalty is highly dubious. [14]  The other half of the Umbers, under  Mors Crowfood , take up the cause of  Stannis Baratheon . [15] 
 
 Family 
 Jon is mentioned as having "sons and brothers" with him when he answers Robb's calling of the banners. [4]  He also has daughters. [16]  His eldest son and heir,  Smalljon Umber , is killed during the  Red Wedding . [17] 
 
 
 
             Hoarfrost           
                                                                                         
     Unknown Umber               Mors   Unknown   Hother     
                                                                                 
 Jon   Unknown   Sons   Sons   Daughter     
                                                 
 Jon   Son(s)   At least 2 daughters   
 
 
 
 Quotes by Greatjon 
 Robb:   My lord father  taught me that it was death to bare steel against your liege lord, but doubtless you only meant to cut my meat. 
 Greatjon:  Your meat, is bloody tough. [4] 
 
 – Greatjon to  Robb Stark  after  Grey Wind  bites off two fingers
 
 
 We'll shove our swords up  Tywin Lannister 's bunghole soon enough, begging your pardons, and then it's on to the  Red Keep  to free  Ned . [18] 
 
 – Greatjon to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 MY LORDS! Here is what I say to these two kings!  Renly Baratheon  is nothing to me, nor  Stannis  neither. Why should they rule over me and mine, from some flowery seat in  Highgarden  or  Dorne ? What do they know of the  Wall  or the  wolfswood  or the  barrows  of the  First Men ? Even  their gods  are wrong. The  Others  take the  Lannisters  too, I've had a bellyful of them. Why shouldn't we rule ourselves again? It was the  dragons  we married, and the dragons are all dead! There sits the only king I mean to bow my knee to, m'lords. The  King in the North ! [2] 
 
 
 
 Leave off, Karstark, it was a mother's folly. Women are made that way. [3] 
 
 – Greatjon to  Rickard Karstark 
 
 
 Your  creepers  best come fast, or my men will swarm those walls and win the  Moat  before you show your face. I'll make a gift of it to you when you come dawdling up. [19] 
 
 – Greatjon to  Robb Stark 
 
 Quotes about Greatjon 
 I thought he was going to kill me. Did you see the way he threw down  Hal , like he was no bigger than  Rickon ? Gods, I was so scared. [4] 
 
 –  Robb Stark  to  Bran Stark 
 
 
 Catelyn :  Your father  once told me that the Greatjon was as fearless as any man he had ever known. 
 Robb :  Grey Wind  ate two of his fingers, and he laughed about it. [18] 
  –  Catelyn Stark  and  Robb Stark 
 
 
 Catelyn would sooner Lord Umber had seen fit to stay sober, but telling the Greatjon not to drink was like telling him not to breathe for a few hours. [7] 
  – thoughts of  Catelyn Stark 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Jon Umber (Greatjon). 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 53 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑   Game of Throne cast so far  on Liftingfaces 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 63 , Catelyn X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 39 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 62 , The Sacrifice. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 17 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 51 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn V. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Greatjon Umber  on the Game of Thrones wiki.
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jon_Umber&oldid=205222 "  
 Categories :  House Umber Characters from the North Hostages of House Frey in the War of the Five Kings Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
