
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Gregor Clegane 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Gregor Clegane     
 Gregor Clegane, by Michael Komarck© 
 Alias 
The Mountain That Rides The Mountain The Great Dog The Enormity That Rides Title 
 Ser Knight of  Clegane's Keep Allegiance 
 House Clegane House Lannister Born 
In  265 AC  or  266 AC [1] Died 
In  300 AC Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Conan Stevens  ~  Season 1 Ian Whyte  ~  Season 2   Hafthor Julius Bjornsson  ~  Season 4  -  Season 7 TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 4 |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Ser  Gregor Clegane  is the  Knight  of  Clegane's Keep  and is the head of  House Clegane , a  landed knight  and bannerman to  House Lannister  of  Casterly Rock . Gregor is a freakishly large man and for this he is often called  the Mountain That Rides  or simply  the Mountain . His soldiers are known as the  Mountain's men .
 In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , Gregor is played by  Conan Stevens  ( Season 1 ),  Ian Whyte  ( Season 2 ), and  Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson  ( Season 4  -  Season 7 ). [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character and Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Gregor 
 5   Quotes about Gregor 
 6   Family 
 7   See also 
 8   References 
 
 
 Character and Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Gregor Clegane 
 Gregor is well known for his size, cruelty, and prowess in battle. Gregor is extremely tall (he is close to eight feet in height or 2,4 meters). He has "massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunk of small trees"  [3] , and a voice like stone breaking. Gregor weighs over thirty stone (420 lbs, or 190 kgs), nearly all of it muscle, making him near inhumanly strong. Gregor's strength allows him to wield a six-foot, two-handed greatsword with just one hand, giving him enormous reach while still wielding a shield. Such is the power of Gregor's strength that he has been known to hack men in half with just a single blow. [4] 
 In battle Gregor wears the heaviest, thickest plate armor in the  Seven Kingdoms . His armor is so heavy that no ordinary man would be able to move, let alone fight effectively while wearing it, [4]  making him nigh-invincible in combat. Below the plate he wears chainmail and boiled leather. He also wears a plate helm with only a narrow slit for vision, atop of which is a stone fist punching up towards the sky. Gregor carries an extremely thick oaken shield bearing the three black dogs of  House Clegane  on a yellow field. [4] 
 Gregor is known for his violence and cruelty. He is a sadistic murderer and rapist. Ser  Brynden Tully  compares him to a "frothing dog". [5]  Despite being a dim and brutal man he has excellent warrior instincts. [4]  He is solitary, never leaving his own lands except for wars or  tourneys . [3] 
 According to his squire,  Joss Stilwood , Gregor constantly suffers from extreme headaches and consumes vast quantities of  milk of the poppy  to try and dull the pain. The cause of these headaches is unknown, perhaps due to some condition of his gigantism, though  Merrett Frey 's experiences indicate that a tourney injury or head blow in battle can be debilitating. [6]  This might be an explanation for Gregor's near uncontrollable temper. According to his brother,  Sandor Clegane , Gregor once killed one of his own men because the soldier snored too loudly. [7] 
 
 History 
   Gregor kills Prince  Aegon  in front of Princess  Elia Martell 
 Gregor's history is dark and filled with blood. As a young boy, eleven or twelve years old, he caused his brother  Sandor 's facial scars by holding the younger boy's face to a hot brazier as punishment for playing with a toy he had discarded. Their father spread the story that the injuries were caused by bedding that had caught fire. [8] 
 Four years later, Gregor was knighted by Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen , [8]  presumably prior to the  tourney of Harrenhal . [9]  Gregor is a suspected  kinslayer ; There are rumors that Gregor killed his father, sister, and his first two wives.  His keep  is said to be a grim place where servants vanish unaccountably and even the dogs are afraid to enter the halls. [3] 
 Gregor has committed rapes and cold-blooded murders beyond count but his most infamous deed came from his service to  House Lannister  during  Robert's Rebellion . At the age of seventeen, Gregor was one of the first Lannister soldiers to enter  King's Landing  during its  sack  at the end of the war. He and Ser  Amory Lorch  scaled  Maegor's Holdfast  when the Lannister troops reached the  Red Keep . Gregor entered the nursery of the infant Prince  Aegon , son of Prince Rhaegar, and killed the baby present by dashing the boy's head against a wall. Then he raped and murdered Aegon's mother, Princess  Elia , supposedly with the boy's blood and brains still on his hands. [3] [10] [11]  The identities of the two murderers have not been publicly confirmed in the recorded history, [12]  although Gregor's involvement is common knowledge at  Casterly Rock . [10] 
 Gregor participated in the suppression of  Greyjoy's Rebellion . [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Conan Stevens as Gregor during the  Hand's tourney  in  Game of Thrones . 
 Ser Gregor takes part in the  Hand's tourney . He slays Ser  Hugh  of the  Vale  in his second joust when his lance rides up and pierces the new-made knight's throat. According to  Sandor Clegane , Gregor noticed the knight's gorget was not fastened properly and Gregor purposely drove his lance there. [8]  He defeats Ser  Balon Swann , but is finally unhorsed by Ser  Loras Tyrell , who rides a mare in heat to the joust, which unnerves Gregor's stallion. Gregor falls into a rage and kills his stallion with one blow of his sword. He then attacks the unprepared Loras, and would have killed him if his brother Sandor had not intercepted him. He finally comes to his senses when King  Robert I Baratheon  orders him to stop. [3] 
 After the tourney, Gregor rides back to his keep. Upon his journey home from the tourney with seven of his men, Gregor broods on his loss. An overflowing river detours the group to a nearby alehouse, where he and  his men  gang rape the brewer's thirteen-year-old daughter,  Layna . [13] 
 After  Tyrion Lannister  is kidnapped by  Catelyn Stark , Gregor is commanded by Lord  Tywin Lannister  to raid the  riverlands  to draw  Eddard Stark , the  Hand of the King , out into the field. However, Eddard, due to his injured leg, cannot go and execute Gregor himself, instead sending Lord  Beric Dondarrion  and  Thoros of Myr  to lead a party and bring Gregor to the king's justice. [14]  Gregor and Tywin ambush this party, Gregor killing Beric in the ensuing clash at the  Mummer's Ford . [15]  The Mountain also takes  Stone Hedge , putting the castle to the torch, taking its food supplies, and burning the harvest of Lord  Jonos Bracken . He then rapes one of Bracken's daughters. [16] 
 After the outbreak of the  War of the Five Kings , Gregor joins with Tywin's host and commands the vanguard and the left flank during the  battle on the Green Fork , leading by intimidation. In the first charge, his horse is killed by  Karstark  spearmen, but Gregor is unhurt and goes on fighting. [17]  After the victory, Gregor sits with Tywin's war council at the  crossroads  when they receive word of Ser  Jaime Lannister 's capture at the  Whispering Wood ; the Mountain suggests the outriders' eyes be put out and given to their replacements as a warning for failure to scout the  Stark  movements. Tywin withdraws to  Harrenhal  but leaves Gregor and other raiders behind to harry the riverlands, each of them commanding three hundred cavalry. [18] 
 
   The Mountain with the  Mountain's men  - by Nordheimer © 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Gregor's band  sacks   Castle Darry , where Gregor kills the eight-year-old Lord  Lyman Darry . [5]  Gregor continues his raiding, causing enormous destruction and killing entire villages with impunity. For a time he unwittingly holds  Arya Stark  as a captive, and she witnesses many of his atrocities firsthand. [19]  His band marches any surviving captives back to  Harrenhal  where they are forced into servitude to  House Lannister . During the  War of the Five Kings  Gregor's band fights numerous skirmishes with the  brotherhood without banners ; one such skirmish results in Gregor killing  Beric Dondarrion  a second time.
 During the  Battle of the Fords , Gregor Clegane's band joins up with Tywin's host and attacks the crossing of the  Red Fork  at the  Stone Mill , which is defended by Ser  Edmure Tully 's forces. Gregor's force is pushed back, however, and he is forced to retreat. [20] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Ser Gregor's band joins with  Randyll Tarly 's army to surround what is left of the retreating  northern  army that  attacks Duskendale . [21]  He chases Lord  Roose Bolton 's army as they march to the  Twins , taking several highborn captives including Ser  Wylis Manderly  in the  fighting at the fords of the Trident . [22]  Lord  Tywin Lannister  then orders Gregor to  retake Harrenhal , which is held by  Vargo Hoat  and the  Brave Companions , and put the castle to the sword. [11] [23]  A cook of Harrenhal who had his foot cut off by Hoat wanted revenge and opens a postern gate for Clegane. Inside,  Gregor's men  slaughter the inhabitants and the defenders (bar the cook who opened the gate, the castle smith  Ben Blackthumb  and a girl named  Pia  who the Mountain and his men rape repeatedly). The Mountain gives special treatment to Vargo, who is known as "the Goat", forcing him to eat his own cooked limbs ("roast goat") and serving him to the captive northmen as well. [24] 
 When Prince  Oberyn Martell  comes to  King's Landing  to claim the seat on the  small council  on Prince  Doran Martell 's behalf and obtain justice for the murder of their sister,  Elia Martell , and her children, as was agreed with the acting  Hand of the King ,  Tyrion Lannister , [25]  the new Hand, Lord  Tywin Lannister , means to forgo that promise. Tywin plans on lying to Oberyn and claiming that the deceased Ser  Amory Lorch  was to blame for all three deaths. While Amory was guilty of the murder of Princess  Rhaenys , he was not responsible for the deaths of Elia and Prince  Aegon . Tywin intends to keep Gregor far away from King's Landing during Oberyn's stay. [11]  He sends the Mountain and others to search for his son  Jaime  when he learns of his release from  Riverrun , but Jaime arrives at the capital under the guard of  Brienne of Tarth . [26] 
 
   Gregor Clegane fighting  Oberyn Martell  - by Zippo514 © 
 Tywin's plan to keep Gregor away is ruined when Tyrion is put on trial for  the murder  of King  Joffrey I Baratheon  and Tyrion's accuser, Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister , announces that her champion will be Gregor in the event of a  trial by combat . Cersei names Gregor in order to thwart Tyrion from using  Bronn  or anyone else to defend him in a trial by combat given Gregor's monstrous reputation. [27]  This move, however, leads Elia's brother, Oberyn, on seeing a chance to fulfill  House Martell 's long-held desire for vengeance against her murderer, to agree to champion Tyrion in opposition.
 Gregor fights in his usual style - with heavy armor, his thick oaken shield and his greatsword in one hand - but Oberyn outfights him with speed and a poisoned spear. Though most of Oberyn's attacks are deflected by Gregor's plate, Oberyn cleverly attacks the joints in the armor, and eventually wounds Gregor after the Mountain tires from chasing Oberyn. After being poisoned and crippled by numerous wounds, Gregor manages to grab hold of Oberyn and crush him to death. Before killing Oberyn, however, Gregor roars that he killed Elia and Aegon for all to hear. [4]  Despite Gregor's victory, Oberyn achieves his revenge for his murdered sister as he had coated his spear with a deadly poison which results in a long, agonizing death by mortification for Gregor.
 Tywin Lannister  faces huge political ramifications from the results of the trial, especially Gregor's confession. Tywin fears  Dorne  might join  Stannis Baratheon , which could prolong the  War of the Five Kings  for years. Tywin planned on having Gregor executed to appease House Martell, but needed it to be seen that the  King's Justice  is the one who carries out the deed, not poison. Tywin commands Grand Maester  Pycelle  to heal Gregor, but Pycelle's efforts prove fruitless. [28] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Gregor's condition continues to deteriorate. The venom turns the blood in Gregor's body black with gangrene, and any leeches that touch him die instantly. His piss is full of pus, and the venom eats a hole the size of a fist in Gregor's side. His screams of agony are so loud they can be heard in the entire  Red Keep , and wake several people up during the night.  Qyburn  states upon examining him that it is a wonder the man is still alive. [29] 
 Qyburn brings the insensible and dying Gregor to the dungeons below the Red Keep, where the Mountain's screams can no longer be heard by those above the  black cells . Qyburn experiments on Gregor before his impending death, and concludes that the poison was  manticore  venom thickened with sorcery to draw out the Mountain's dying instead of killing him instantly. [29] 
 Gregor's skull  is to be sent to  Sunspear  in Dorne as recompense for the deaths of  Elia  and her children. [30]  Qyburn says it took beetles many hours to clean flesh from the bone. [31]  Qyburn later mentions working on creating an unbeatable champion for Cersei, and uses several female prisoners in his experiments. [32] [33]  He has her order a suit of plate armor so thick and heavy that the armorer who created it states that no man is strong enough to move and fight in it. [33] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Ser Robert Strong by  Robert O'Leary 
 The  Mountain's skull  is brought to Sunspear by Ser  Balon Swann  of the  Kingsguard , and is presented to Prince  Doran Martell , Princess  Arianne Martell , and the eldest of the Oberyn's eight  bastard daughters  ( Obara ,  Tyene  and  Nymeria Sand ). Obara ponders if the head is really Gregor's. Doran notes that it is certainly large enough to be so and Tyene confirms that if the poison her father used so much as broke the Mountain's skin, then Gregor is dead. [34] 
 Meanwhile, in  King's Landing , the death of Ser  Arys Oakheart  in Dorne leaves a vacancy on the Kingsguard. The imprisoned Queen  Cersei Lannister  requests that the white cloak be brought to Qyburn, [35]  who unveils an enormous eight-foot-tall knight encased from head to heel in gleaming white armor. [36] 
 Other members of the Kingsguard claim that their new brother does not eat, sleep, drink, or even visit the privy. He is not seen without his armor and never removes his helm. At no time has he spoken and it is claimed by Qyburn that he has taken a holy vow of silence until Cersei's innocence is proven and the realm purged of evil. He wears a helm bearing seven plumes in the colors of the  Faith , and his cloak of office is clasped with icons in the shape of seven-pointed stars. Though he is introduced as Ser  Robert Strong , many in the  Red Keep  have guessed the identity of the silent giant. Given the skull being sent to Dorne, it is unknown what will be revealed if that helmet is ever removed. [37] 
 
 Quotes by Gregor 
 A man who sees nothing has no use for his eyes, cut them out and give them to your next outrider. Tell him you hope that four eyes might see better than two ... and if not, the man after him will have six. [18] 
  - Gregor after the  Battle of the Camps 
 
 
 Elia of Dorne . I killed her screaming whelp.  Then  I raped her. Then I smashed her fucking head in. Like this. [4] 
  - Gregor to  Oberyn Martell 
 Quotes about Gregor 
 No one could ever withstand Gregor. [8] 
  –  Sandor Clegane  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Pycelle : The man is an anointed  knight . 
 Marq : A false knight! Lord Tywin's mad dog. [14] 
  –  Pycelle  and  Marq Piper 
 
 
 That beast's head would make a noble gift for all the people of the realm, I vow. [5] 
  –  Brynden Tully  to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 No other knight in the realm inspires such terror in our enemies. [11] 
  –  Tywin Lannister  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Ellaria:  You are going to fight  that ? 
 Oberyn:  I am going to kill that. [4] 
  –  Ellaria Sand  and  Oberyn Martell 
 
 
 He is dying of the venom, but slowly, and in exquisite agony. [6] 
  –  Qyburn  to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 I know the poison that  my father  used, and there is none slower or more agonizing. Soon we may hear the Mountain screaming, even here in  Sunspear . [30] 
  -  Tyene Sand  to  Doran Martell 
 
 
 The flesh mortifies and the wounds ooze pus. Even maggots will not touch such foulness. His convulsions are so violent that I have had to gag him to prevent him from biting off his own tongue. I have cut away as much tissue as I dare, and treated the rot with boiling wine and bread mold, to no avail. The veins in his arms are turning black. When I leeched him, all the leeches died. [28] 
  -  Pycelle  to the  small council 
 
 
 Qyburn:  It is a wonder that the man is still alive, if truth be told. 
 Cersei:  His size, Gregor is a very large man. Also a very stupid one. Too stupid to know when he should die, it seems. [6] 
  –  Qyburn  and  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 She  had made the mistake of speaking when Ser Gregor wanted quiet, so the Mountain had smashed her teeth to splinters with a mailed fist and broken her pretty little nose as well. He would have done worse, no doubt, if  Cersei  had not called him down to  King's Landing  to face the  Red Viper's  spear. Jaime would not mourn him. [24] 
  -  Jaime Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 If ever a man deserved to die screaming, it was Gregor Clegane. [34] 
  –  Doran Martell  to  Balon Swann 
 Family 
 
           Founder of House Clegane                         
                       
           Ser Clegane                         
                                                     
   Gregor "the Mountain"   Sandor "the Hound"   Daughter       
                     
 
 
 
 See also 
 Gregor Clegane/Theories 
 Robert Strong/Theories 
 Gregor Clegane  on the Game of Thrones wiki. 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Gregor Clegane  calculation. 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 7 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Various questions concerning Tywin, Oberyn, Gregor, the North, and Sansa , April 15, 2008 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The End. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 48 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 62 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 26 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  24.0   24.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑  29.0   29.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 6 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑  33.0   33.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑  34.0   34.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 65 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Gregor_Clegane&oldid=217987 "  
 Categories :  House Clegane Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Westerlands Characters killed by Oberyn Martell Knights Landed knights House Lannister retainers Nobles Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Kinslayers   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
