
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Grenn 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Grenn   
 
 Alias 
Aurochs Allegiance 
 Night's Watch Culture 
 Westeros Born 
In  281 AC  or  282 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Mark Stanley TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3 
 
|  Season 4 
 Grenn  is a recruit of the  Night's Watch  and friend of  Jon Snow . He is given the nickname  Aurochs  by Ser  Alliser Thorne . [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by  Mark Stanley .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Grenn 
 Grenn is thick of neck. [2]  He is a head taller than  Jon Snow , at the age of sixteen. [2] 
 Jon's original impression of Grenn is that he is slow and clumsy. [2]  Even his friends in the Night's Watch often mock him for his looks and for not being the smartest. [3] [4] [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Grenn is one of the recruits when  Jon Snow  comes to join the  Night's Watch . They are trained together by Ser  Alliser Thorne , with Alliser deriding Grenn as "Aurochs". While training with blunted swords, Jon defeats Grenn and causes an injury to his hand. Grenn,  Todder , and two other recruits confront the younger Jon, but  Donal Noye  prevents further violence and reminds Jon of his advantageous upbringing. After he has received news that his brother  Bran  has woken from his coma, Jon is conciliatory towards Grenn, offering to teach him how to defend against the move that has caused his injury. [2] 
 Grenn trains with Jon Snow and his sword fighting soon improves, now able to hold his own against a more adept recruit such as  Halder . As a result,  Pypar  also asks Jon for help. [6] 
 Alliser picks on  Samwell Tarly  when he arrives at the  Wall , commanding Halder,  Rast , and  Albett  to fight the inept youth. Grenn, Jon, and Pyp defend Sam, however. Because Rast is still willing to hurt Sam for Alliser, he is visited by Grenn, Jon, and Pyp and threatened by Jon's  direwolf ,  Ghost . Sam joins Grenn, Jon, Pyp, and Halder during meals and eventually shares in their jests. [7] 
 When a new group of recruits heads toward  Castle Black , Alliser names eight of his novices ready to join the Night's Watch. Grenn celebrates with wine. [8]  Grenn is happy to be assigned to the rangers, while Jon is assigned to the stewards. [9] 
 Following the arrest of Lord  Eddard Stark , Jon's father, as a traitor, Grenn is among those who lend support to Jon, telling him that the accusation is a lie. He and others stop Jon from attacking Alliser with a knife when Alliser calls Jon "not only a bastard, but a traitor's bastard". [10] 
 Jon saves the life of  Jeor Mormont ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , when he is attacked by a  wight . Out of gratitude, the Old Bear gives Jon his family sword,  Longclaw , as a gift. Afterwards, Grenn joins others who ask Jon to show them the  Valyrian steel  sword, explaining that they knew about the present before Jon did. [3] 
 Grenn is among the group of friends that stop Jon from abandoning the Wall and forswearing himself following the execution of his father in  King's Landing . When Jon declares he needs to be with his brother  Robb , Grenn says that those of the Night's Watch are his brothers now. He goes on explaining that, while everyone is sorry about Lord Eddard's fate, Jon cannot go back once he has made the vow. [11] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Grenn while  beyond the Wall  - by Amok © 
 Grenn participates in the  great ranging  led by Lord Commander Mormont. Before it starts, Grenn joins other brothers who go to  Mole's Town  for drinking and whoring. [12] 
 During the ranging, Grenn serves as an outrider and is usually paired with  Dywen . The gnarled, veteran ranger takes on a mentor role; clouting Grenn on the ear and advising the young ranger. When the group approaches  Craster's Keep , Dywen tells Grenn that  Craster  was born of a  wildling  woman and a ranger. Dywen warns Jon and others to not look after  Craster 's wives. Grenn later challenges Dywen's boast that he slept with three of Craster's daughters during the night, explaining that he would have noticed that. [4] 
 Dywen declares there is a strange smell around the  Fist of the First Men , explaining to Grenn that it smells cold. [13]  Jon makes daggers from the stash of  dragonglass  he has found at the Fist, keeping one for himself and giving others to Grenn, Sam, and Lord Commander Mormont. [14] [15]  Grenn also takes dragonglass arrowheads from the cache. [15] 
 When Jon kills  Qhorin Halfhand  on his command to prove that he has forsaken the Night's Watch so that he can infiltrate the camp of  Mance Rayder , Jon wonders whether he has lost his friends. [16] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Grenn survives the  fight at the Fist , where the Night's Watch is attacked by wights. Grenn and  Small Paul  encourage the dispirited  Samwell Tarly  during during the retreat south, with Grenn beginning to sing " The Bear and the Maiden Fair ". [17]  An  Other  kills Paul, but Sam manages to kill the Other with a dragonglass dagger. Afterward, Grenn calls him Sam the Slayer. [15] 
 Grenn is among those who make it back to  Craster's Keep . When some men of the Watch  mutiny , Grenn flees with others after the death of Lord Commander  Jeor Mormont . [15]  Once back at Castle Black, Grenn helps villagers from  Mole's Town  seek shelter. [18]  During the  battle beneath the Wall , Grenn rolls barrels of oil [19]  and crushed stone [20]  from the Wall to attack wildlings. Jon leaves command of the Wall to Grenn when he descends to Castle Black. [19] 
 Having grown a half a foot taller since having met Jon, Grenn has not cut his shaggy hair or beard since the Fist. [20] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Grenn complains that Jon has not been the same since being chosen the new Lord Commander. [21] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Grenn is seen sitting with Pyp and the rest in the common room. They invite Jon to sit with them, but he refuses. [22]  The Lord Commander assigns Grenn to  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea .
 
 Quotes 
 Grenn : Nobody likes cravens. I wish we hadn't helped  him . What if they think we're craven too? 
 Pypar : You're too stupid to be craven. 
 Grenn : I am not. 
 Pypar : Yes you are. If a bear attacked you in the woods, you'd be too stupid to run away. 
 
 Grenn : I would not. I'd run away faster than you. [7] 
  - Grenn and  Pypar 
 
 
 Pypar : We're not all as dumb as Grenn. 
 Grenn : You are so. You're dumber. [3] 
  - Grenn and  Pypar 
 
 
 Samwell : You never liked Ser  Alliser  to call you Aurochs. 
 Grenn : He was saying I was big and stupid. If  Pyp  wanted to call me Aurochs, though, he could. Or you, or  Jon . An aurochs is a fierce strong beast, so that's not so bad, and I am big, and getting bigger. [15] 
  -  Samwell Tarly  and Grenn
 
 
 Jon : Grenn, you have the  Wall . 
 Grenn : Me? 
 Pypar : Him? 
 Grenn : But, b-but what do I do if the  wildlings  attack again? 
 
 Jon : Stop them. [19] 
  -  Jon Snow ,  Pypar , and Grenn
 
 
 Sometimes I think everyone is just pretending to be brave, and none of us really are.  [15] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Grenn  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 19 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 60 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 23 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 75 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 21 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 26 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 52 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 70 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 6 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 34 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 43 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4   15.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 33 , Samwell II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 68 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 18 , Samwell I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 55 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 64 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 69 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 5 , Samwell I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 10 , Jon III. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Grenn&oldid=213777 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Westeros Rangers of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
