
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Grey Worm 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Grey Worm 
 Grey Worm by Ryan Valle - FFG© 
 Allegiance 
The  Unsullied House Targaryen Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Jacob Anderson TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Grey Worm  is an  Unsullied  purchased by and sworn to  Daenerys Targaryen . He is the commander of Daenerys's Unsullied and one of her trusted advisors. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by Jacob Anderson.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   Quotes about Grey Worm 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Grey Worm 
 According to a semi-canon source, Grey Worm has absolutely no facial hair, though the hair atop his head is short and brown. He is stocky, of medium height and square. He has a serious looking face, on the edge of solemn. The Unsullied do not display much emotion. He is young, in his late twenties or so. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Grey Worm is chosen by his fellow Unsullied as the most able among them to become an officer. He is placed under the tutelage of Ser  Jorah Mormont  to learn how to command. When  Daenerys Targaryen  abolishes the Unsullied tradition of being given new names every day, Grey Worm chooses to keep the Unsullied name he had when he was freed. [2] 
 Grey Worm is among those present during planning for the  siege of Meereen ,  Daario Naharis  states that the Unsullied could take down the gates with axes since they consider boiling oil to be no more than a warm bath. Grey Worm responds that this is false; although Unsullied would not feel burns like men do, but the oil, would blind and kill, but give the Unsullied a ram they would batter down the gate or die. Daenerys tells Grey Worm she will not throw away Unsullied lives. Later there is a plan presented to invade the city through the sewers; Daenerys includes the Unsullied as those she does not believe are appropriate for invading through the sewers. [3] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Daenerys has Grey Worm order her  Unsullied  to travel in pairs when the  Sons of the Harpy  begin killing her soldiers. When Daenerys disappears on  Drogon 's back,  Hizdahr zo Loraq  attempts to order the Unsullied but Grey Worm and his men refuse to obey him. However when Ser  Barristan Selmy  goes to Grey Worm for his help in seizing control of  Meereen , Grey Worm agrees to aid Selmy. Grey Worm becomes a member of the  ruling council of Meereen .
 
 Quotes 
 It is a lucky name. The name this one was born to was accursed. That was the name he had when he was taken for a slave. But Grey Worm is the name this one drew the day Daenerys Stormborn set him free. [2] 
  - Grey Worm to Daenerys Targaryen
 Quotes about Grey Worm 
 I have no plans for Grey Worm's race or personal history to become important at this time, though I do reserve the right to change my mind. Sometimes the muse plays strange tricks on me. [1] 
  -  George R. R. Martin 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   So Spake Martin:  Concerning Grey Worm  (July 31, 2003) 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Grey_Worm&oldid=218712 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Essos Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Eunuchs Ruling council of Meereen Unsullied   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
