
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Groleo 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Groleo 
 © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Title 
Captain Lord Admiral [1] Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Culture 
 Pentoshi Died 
In  300 AC , at  Meereen Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Groleo  is the captain of the cog  Saduleon , renamed the  Balerion . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Groleo 
 Groleo is an aging  Pentoshi  man. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Captain Groleo is sent by  Illyrio Mopatis  with three ships, including the great cog  Saduleon , to bring  Daenerys Targaryen  back to  Pentos . Daenerys instead renames the ships after  Targaryen   dragons [4]  and commands Groleo to head for  Slaver's Bay . [3] 
 During the  siege of Meereen  Daenerys realizes she cannot take the city without siege engines, but there is no available wood because the Meereenese have burned all nearby trees. Daenerys commands Groleo to drive his ships ashore, and her  Unsullied  and sellswords use the wood of the ships to create siege engines, turtles and battering rams to take the city. [5] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Groleo is made an admiral by  Daenerys Targaryen , but without a fleet it is an empty title. He inspects the thirteen ships brought by  Xaro Xhoan Daxos  and pronounces them seaworthy. [6] 
 Groleo,  Daario Naharis ,  Jhogo ,  Hero  and three of the kin of  Hizdahr zo Loraq  are given as hostages as a guarantee for the safe conduct of the Yunkish commanders who visit  Meereen  when a peace treaty is made between  Meereen  and  Yunkai .  Bloodbeard  subsequently kills Groleo and presents the head of the captain to Hizdahr in retaliation for the death of the Yunkish commander,  Yurkhaz zo Yunzak , who was killed when  Drogon  appeared in the fighting pits.
 Ser  Barristan Selmy  is enraged and wishes to kill Bloodbeard. The  Brazen Beasts  who are in the room when the head is presented are eager to cut down the Yunkish nobles in retaliation, but are puzzled when the order is not given by Hizdahr. Barristan has Hizdahr request Groleo's body be returned so he can be decently buried. Barristan remembers Groleo had a wife, children and grandchildren and all the man wanted to do was return home to  Pentos .
 When Barristan,  Skahaz mo Kandaq , the  Unsullied  and the Brazen Beasts seize control of Meereen they use the password  Groleo  in honor of the admiral.
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Groleo. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 16 , Daenerys III. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Groleo&oldid=207948 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Pentos Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Sailors Admirals Ship captains Casualties of the Targaryen campaign in Slaver's Bay   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
