
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Gyles Rosby 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Gyles Rosby  
 Gyles Rosby, art by TheMico ©. 
 Alias 
The Cougher Title 
 Lord of Rosby Lord treasurer Master of coin Allegiance 
 House Rosby Died 
In  300 AC [1] , at  King's Landing [1] Spouse 
1st: Unknown Lady 2nd: Unknown Lady Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Gyles Rosby  is the Lord of  Rosby  and head of  House Rosby . He is sickly and coughs constantly. [2]  The aunt of Lord Gyles's second wife is Lady  Tanda Stokeworth  and who are themselves third cousins. [3]  Lord Gyles has no immediate heir, though he has a  ward at Rosby . [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 History 
 He has been married at least twice but remains childless. [3] [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lord Gyles remains at court in  King's Landing  when fighting in the  riverlands  breaks out. [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Lord Gyles attends the  tourney on King Joffrey's name day . [4]  When he receives his copy of  Stannis Baratheon 's letter concerning the illegitimacy of Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister 's children with King  Robert I Baratheon , he sends it on to  King's Landing . Due to the  war , King's Landing is supplied mainly by Lord Gyles and Lady  Tanda Stokeworth , for their lands are far enough away from the fighting to be untouched by the war. [5]  Gyles is present when  Tyrion Lannister  offers his terms for peace for Ser  Cleos Frey  to take back to King  Robb Stark . [6] 
 Lord Gyles survives  the attack by the mob  on the procession returning to the castle after seeing Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  off to  Dorne . [7]  After the attack, Cersei fears for her son's life and decides to send Prince  Tommen  in secret to  Rosby , dressing him as a page and putting him under the protection of Gyles. Tyrion finds out about the plan and has Gyles and his entourage intercepted on the  Rosby road  by Ser  Jacelyn Bywater . [8] 
 During the  battle of the Blackwater , Gyles stays in  Maegor's Holdfast  with Cersei and the other noble ladies. [9] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Gyles is an attendant at the wedding of  Sansa Stark  and  Tyrion Lannister . Lord Gyles accompanies Tyrion when he is sent to meet the delegation from Dorne. Gyles is called as a witness for the prosecution in the trial of Tyrion for the death of King  Joffrey I Baratheon . He tells of how he saw Tyrion fill the wedding chalice. [10] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the funeral of Lord  Tywin Lannister , Gyles tells Queen Regent Cersei he has commissioned a statue of Lord Tywin to be placed by the  Lion Gate  in King's Landing. Rosby's coughing has gotten much worse and he is beginning to cough up blood. Cersei learns that Tywin had named  Garth Tyrell  to become the new  master of coin  and, in order to prevent another  Tyrell  from joining the council, she lies to Lord  Mace Tyrell , telling him she has already named Lord Gyles as the new master of coin to the  small council  instead. [11] 
 Upon assuming the duties of the master of coin, Gyles has to deal with many of the crown's debt problems and an angry envoy from the  Iron Bank of Braavos , who is irate when he learns that the king would suspend all payments on the loans from the Iron Bank until the  War of the Five Kings  is over. The envoy hounds Gyles so much that he takes to his bed coughing up blood. [12]  Eventually, Gyles is overcome by his sickness and dies at the  Red Keep . Cersei's paranoia leads her to the mistaken belief that Gyles was killed by the Tyrells so that they could replace him with Garth Tyrell. Gyles does not leave behind an immediate heir, but he does have a  ward at Rosby . [1] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 20 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 60 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Gyles_Rosby&oldid=217892 "  
 Categories :  House Rosby Nobles Characters from the Crownlands Masters of coin Lords treasurer Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Members of Robert Baratheon's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
