
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Harry Strickland 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Harry Strickland  
 Harry Strickland by  Oznerol-1516 © 
 Alias 
Homeless Harry Strickland Title 
Captain-General Allegiance 
 House Strickland Golden Company Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Harry Strickland , also known as  Homeless Harry Strickland , is the captain-general in command of the  Golden Company .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Harry Strickland 
 Harry looks little like a warrior. He is portly, with a big round head, mild grey eyes and thinning grey hair that he brushes sideways to cover up a bald spot. He likes elephants. [1] 
 
 History 
 Harry Strickland's great-grandsire lost his lands when he rose in  rebellion  with  Daemon Blackfyre . Harry was born in exile and raised with the  Golden Company , as was his father and his grandfather. He likes to boast "Gold for four generations". He complains often of blisters on his feet from long marches and is not the bravest of men. Prior to his elevation to leadership Harry was the company paymaster. After the death of the previous commander,  Blackheart , Harry was made the new company commander. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Harry brings the  Golden Company  to three miles south of  Volon Therys , where they are met by  Jon Connington  and  Aegon Targaryen . [1]  When the company  invades   Westeros , Harry is weary and reluctant to fight. Connington looks down on him constantly as a coward. [2] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Harry_Strickland&oldid=208185 "  
 Categories :  Knights Mercenaries House Strickland Captain-generals of the Golden Company Exiles Characters from the Free Cities   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
