
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Harys Swyft 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,   search 
 
  Harys Swyft  
 Copyrighted work by Fantasy Flight Games© 
 Alias 
The knight of the yellow chicken [1] Title 
 Knight  of  Cornfield Ser Hand of the King Master of coin Lord treasurer Allegiance 
 House Swyft Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) The Winds of Winter  (appears) 
 Ser  Harys Swyft  is the  Knight  of  Cornfield  and head of  House Swyft . He is the good-father to Ser  Kevan Lannister .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.6   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Harys 
 5   Quotes about Harys 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 Harys has a small white beard [2]  over his small chin. [3]  He is bald, soft, and obsequious. [2]  His yellow doublet is decorated with the bantam rooster of  House Swyft  in lapis beads. [2] 
 
 History 
 When  Tytos Lannister  was Lord of  Casterly Rock , Ser Harys borrowed large sums of money from  House Lannister . Upon Ser  Tywin Lannister 's return from the  War of the Ninepenny Kings , the young heir of Casterly Rock was determined to return his House's status and began by demanding repayment of gold lent by his father, Tytos. Those who could not repay immediately had to send a hostage to  Casterly Rock  until their debt was settled. Harys hastened to obey, stating, "The Lion has awoken." Unable to pay immediately, Harys surrendered his daughter,  Dorna , into the custody of Ser  Kevan Lannister  until the debt was settled. Kevan eventually married Dorna. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Harys is part of Lord  Tywin Lannister 's force in the  riverlands , and he participates in the  battle on the Green Fork . When a courier arrives at Tywin's camp bearing the news of the defeat of the  Lannister  forces in the  Battle of the Camps , lifting the siege of  Riverrun , Harys questions Ser  Jaime Lannister 's tactical ability, criticizing that Jaime split up his host into three different camps. Ser  Kevan Lannister  refutes his good-father's critique, considering Riverrun's strategic position. When the defeatist Harys wants to appeal for peace,  Tyrion Lannister  explains that  Robb Stark  will want vengeance for the execution of his father, Lord  Eddard Stark . Harys suggests appealing to the Crown for new troops and trying to raise a new host at  Casterly Rock . [5] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Harys is with Lord Tywin's army when they  take Harrenhal . During their time there Harys alienates the cooks, who spit in his food. His squire is killed in an argument with the  Brave Companions  over their inability to kill Lord  Beric Dondarrion .  Arya Stark  watches Harys kiss  Vargo Hoat  under Tywin's orders to put the conflict behind them. [6] 
 During the  Battle of the Blackwater , Harys is trapped beneath his horse after it falls on him. He is rescued by one of his men-at-arms,  Willit , who defends him against all attackers, taking grievous wounds in the process. [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Harys is among the nobles that accompany  Tyrion Lannister  to meet the  Dornish  party when they arrive at  King's Landing . [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Harys is named  Hand of the King  by Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister , because he is a weak man whom Cersei could use as a hostage against her uncle, Ser  Kevan Lannister . [2]  Harys is confused during the meetings of the  small council  of King  Tommen I Baratheon . [2] [9] 
 After the death of Lord  Gyles Rosby , Cersei names Harys  lord treasurer  and replaces him as Hand with Lord  Orton Merryweather . [10] 
 When Cersei is arrested by the  Faith of the Seven , Harys and Grand Maester  Pycelle  take control of King Tommen and request that Kevan Lannister return to King's Landing as regent. [1] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Harys continues to serve as lord treasurer, [11]  although his vaults are empty. [12]  In order to placate the  Iron Bank of Braavos , he writes to the bankers of  Myr  in hopes of a loan and is advised by Kevan to also write to the magisters of  Pentos . Kevan refuses to follow Harys's suggestion of raising taxes as the realm is too full of rebellion and half its lords cannot tell taxation from tyranny. Kevan suggests to Harys that he travel to  Braavos  and treat with the Iron Bank in person. [12] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 In Braavos, Harys attends a performance of  The Bloody Hand  at  the Gate , accompanied by the  Black Pearl of Braavos  and some of the  Mountain's men  as guards, including  Raff the Sweetling . [13] 
 
 Quotes by Harys 
 Harys : Ser  Jaime  taken, the siege broken ...  this is a catastrophe ! 
 Addam : I am sure we are all grateful to you for pointing out the obvious, Ser Harys. [3] 
  - Harys and  Addam Marbrand 
 
 
 These are perilous times. [12] 
  - Harys to  Kevan Lannister 
 Quotes about Harys 
 Better than you, you chinless craven, Tyrion thought.  Jaime  might have  lost Riverrun , but it angered him to hear his brother slandered by the likes of Swyft, a shameless lickspittle whose greatest accomplishment was marrying  his equally chinless daughter  to Ser  Kevan , and thereby attaching himself to the  Lannisters . [3] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Kevan  should be  Tommen's   Hand . Harys Swyft is a toad, and  my sister  is a fool if she thinks elsewise. [14] 
  –  Jaime Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Genna : Is it true that  Cersei  burned the  Red Keep ? 
 Jaime : Only the  Tower of the Hand . 
 
 Genna : She would have done better to leave the tower and burn her  Hand . Harys Swyft? If ever a man deserved his arms, it is Ser Harys. [15] 
  -  Genna Lannister  and  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 The knight of the yellow chicken, Cersei mused. You ought to take a worm for your sigil, ser. A chicken is too bold for you. [1] 
  -  Cersei Lannister 's thoughts
 Family 
 
                         Harys   Wife                 
                                                                                               
           Kevan Lannister   Dorna       Steffon   Wife   Shierle   Melwyn Sarsfield           
                                                                                           
   Lancel Lannister   Willem Lannister   Martyn Lannister   Janei Lannister   Joanna         
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Westerlands: House Lannister under the Dragons. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 69 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Mercy 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 30 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Harys_Swyft&oldid=218766 "  
 Categories :  House Swyft Characters from the Westerlands Knights Hands of the King Landed knights Lords treasurer Masters of coin Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Nobles Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
