
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 High Sparrow 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
    High Septon 
 - The High Sparrow - by Marc Fishman © 
 Alias 
The High Sparrow Title 
 High Septon His High Holiness Father of the Faithful Voice of the Seven on Earth Allegiance 
 Faith of the Seven Sparrows Faith Militant Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Jonathan Pryce TV series 
 Season 5  |  Season 6 
 The  High Sparrow  is the current  High Septon  of the  Faith of the Seven . His real name is unknown as High Septons abandon their names once elected to office. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Jonathan Pryce .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by the High Sparrow 
 5   Quotes about the High Sparrow 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of the High Sparrow 
 He is a small, thin, hard-eyed, grey-haired man with a heavily lined face. Unlike previous  High Septons , he does not wear rich robes or elaborate crowns of crystal and spun gold. Instead, he wears a simple white wool tunic that goes to his ankles. The man is truly devout to his faith and has an iron will.
 
 History 
 Little is known of the history of the current High Septon. He claims to have been a septon who walked all over the  realm . His heavily callused feet support this claim; they are black, gnarled and hard as tree roots. He often came upon villages that were too small to have their own septs and performed the traditional duties of a septon, such as naming newborn children, absolving sins and performing marriages.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
 On the  Rosby road ,  Brienne of Tarth  spots a group of sparrows led by a septon with feet that are "bare and black, gnarled and hard as tree roots", a lean face, and grey-and-brown hair, who is going to King's Landing with bones of septons killed in the  Riverlands . This septon is probably the High Sparrow. [1] 
 After the  previous High Septon  is slain, the  Most Devout  begin the selection process to see who of them will become the new High Septon. [2]  According to  Qyburn , the sparrows forcibly took over the selection process. They burst into the chambers with axes in hand and with their leader, the small septon, on their shoulders. The Most Devout relent in fear and name him the new High Septon. [3] 
 The new High Septon begins his term by selling all of the golden crowns, including his own, and robes of cloth and gold. The money earned from this is used to buy food for the sparrows and the poor. He clads himself in a humble wool robe and other Most Devout are forced to follow suit.  Cersei Lannister , in order to secure the Faith's blessing for  her son  and cancel the near one million dragons the crown owed the Faith, allows the High Septon to restore the  Faith Militant . This military arm of the Faith has not existed in the realm since it was disbanded by  Jaehaerys I Targaryen . His army of sparrows become  Poor Fellows  of old and soon over a hundred knights join the  Warrior's Sons . The new High Septon becomes commonly known as the High Sparrow after a jape of  Moon Boy . [4] 
 The Faith, emboldened by their new power, arrests  Margaery Tyrell  and her cousins when  Osney Kettleblack  falsely confesses to bedding the girls. The High Septon is suspicious of Osney's confession, as he had never heard a confession from a man so pleased to be guilty, and has Osney scourged. Osney confesses the actual truth that Cersei had him lie and he killed the previous High Septon under her orders.
 When Cersei Lannister visits the  Great Sept of Baelor , the High Septon has her arrested and imprisoned on similar, but accurate, charges. [5] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne , tasks  Tyene Sand  with befriending the High Sparrow. [6] 
 Since the evidence against Margaery and her cousins is quite weak, the High Septon releases them into the custody of  Randyll Tarly . The High Septon requires Tarly to swear a holy oath to return them for trial.
 The High Septon then sees Cersei when she says she wishes to confess. To try and gain access to visitors, Cersei decides to confess many of her crimes to him. She confesses she did have relations with her cousin  Lancel  and the Kettleblack brothers. She knows such sins would not earn her an execution, but denies the sins that would earn her death - ordering Osney to kill the previous High Septon and her involvement in  Robert 's death. The High Septon agrees to allow her one visitor a day. [7] 
 The High Septon agrees to free Cersei on the condition that she performs a  penance walk  through  King's Landing . Cersei reluctantly agrees. Cersei and Margaery are still to be put on trial. Cersei chose  trial by combat  with Ser  Robert Strong  as her champion. Margaery chose trial by the Faith.
 Lord Regent  Kevan Lannister ,  Master of Laws  Randyll Tarly and  Hand of the King   Mace Tyrell  are frustrated by having to give in to the demands of the "High Sparrow". With so many rebellious subjects in the Seven Kingdoms, however, they dare not be seen to go against the Faith, lest it drive the pious into the armies of another claimant to the  Iron Throne . [8]  The High Septon disapproves of  Stannis Baratheon , believing that Stannis has turned from the truth of the Seven to worship a  red demon  and that his false faith has no place in the  Seven Kingdoms .
 
 Quotes by the High Sparrow 
 I seldom feel so close to god as when I am being whipped for mine own wickedness, though my darkest sins are no wise near as black as  his . [5] 
  - the High Sparrow to Cersei Lannister
 Quotes about the High Sparrow 
 The  Swords  and  Stars  have been re-formed, and this new High Septon is not the puppet that the others were. Try and get close to him. [6] 
  –  Doran Martell  to  Tyene Sand 
 
 
 This man is implacable. [7] 
  – thoughts of  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 What have we become, when kings and high lords must dance to the twittering of Sparrows. [8] 
  –  Randyll Tarly  to  Kevan Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 4 , Brienne I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 
 
 
 v d e 
Known  High Septons 
 Robeson 
 Aegon's Conquest 
 Aegon I 
 Aenys I  (?–43) 
 Pater  (43-44) 
 High Lickspittle  (44 - ?) 
 The Stonemason 
 The Child 
 The Fat One  (?–299) 
 Tyrion's  (299–300) 
 High Sparrow  (300–) 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=High_Sparrow&oldid=209735 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Westeros High Septons Smallfolk   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
