
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Holly 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Holly 
 © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Culture 
 Free Folk Born 
In  283 AC ,  284 AC  or  285 AC [1] Died 
In  300 AC , at  Winterfell Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Holly  is a  wildling   spearwife .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 Holly is young, with unwashed saggy blond hair and pouty lips. [ citation needed ] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Holly accompanies  Mance Rayder  along with five other  spearwives  to  Winterfell  on a mission to free " Arya Stark ", actually  Jeyne Poole , who is to wed  Ramsay Bolton . Mance disguises himself as "Abel", a singer, and the six spearwives are his mother, wife, two daughters and two sisters who perform the instruments with him. [2]  Holly is said to be one of the daughters. [ citation needed ] 
 They play at the wedding feast and are responsible for the deaths of several  Bolton  men-at-arms. They later enlist the help of a reluctant and fearful  Theon Greyjoy  in freeing Jeyne. As they fight their way out of the castle, Holly and the other spearwives are taken down one by one by the Boltons' men. [3] [4]  According to a  letter  Ramsay sends to  Jon Snow  on the  Wall , Mance was captured and now wears the skins of the six women who accompanied him to Winterfell. [5] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Holly  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 51 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 69 , Jon XIII. 
 
 
 v d e 
Party to rescue " Arya Stark " 
 Abel the Bard 
 Rowan 
 Holly 
 Squirrel 
 Willow Witch-eye 
 Frenya 
 Myrtle 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Holly&oldid=210257 "  
 Categories :  Articles with unsourced statements Wildlings Characters from Beyond the Wall Warrior Women Spearwives Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Hidden category:  Articles that Need Verification   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
 
