
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Hosteen Frey 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Hosteen Frey  
 
 Alias 
Ser Stupid Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Frey Born 
In or between  249 AC  and  258 AC [1] Spouse 
 Bellena Hawick Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
   Hosteen Frey by  Cloudninja9 © 
 Ser  Hosteen Frey  is a  knight  of  House Frey , the sixth son of Lord  Walder Frey , the first one born of his third wife,  Amarei Crakehall . He is married to  Bellena Hawick . [2]  Hosteen is a seasoned soldier and the fiercest fighter of Walder's brood.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.6   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   Quotes about Hosteen 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Hosteen Frey 
 Hosteen is a husky man with a square face. [3]  He is brawny, on account of his  Crakehall  ancestry, with a jut of jaw and arms thick with muscle. He is compared to a bull, slow to anger but implacable when aroused. [4]  While he favors his mother's family and is considered the strongest of all the Freys,  [3]   Stannis Baratheon  judges him to be dim and stupid. [5] 
 
 History 
 Ser Hosteen participated in the  tourney at Lannisport , which was held to celebrate King  Robert I Baratheon 's victory over  Greyjoy's Rebellion . He was defeated by the eventual champion, Ser  Jorah Mormont . [6]  Hosteen rode in the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day  in  298 AC , but he was unhorsed by Ser  Loras Tyrell . [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Hosteen attends the  Hand's tourney  in  King's Landing  with five of his brothers. [8]  He is at the  Twins  when  Catelyn Stark  informs her son,  Robb , of the alliance negotiated with Lord  Walder Frey . [7] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Hosteen is captured by  House Lannister , [2]  presumably during the  battle on the Green Fork .  Arya Stark  observes four  Freys  being ransomed at  Harrenhal . [9] 
 Hosteen is later a member of the Frey contingent commanded by Ser  Aenys Frey  and Lord  Roose Bolton  at Harrenhal. He claims to have been captured by Lord  Tywin Lannister  once. [3] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Ser Hosteen is among the Freys that meet Ser  Jaime Lannister  when he arrives at Harrenhal with the  Brave Companions . Hosteen is introduced to Catelyn Stark at the Twins on the eve of Lord  Edmure Tully 's wedding to  Roslin Frey . [10]  During the  Red Wedding  Hosteen kills  Lucas Blackwood . [11] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Aenys and Hosteen command the two thousand Frey swords that are sent with Lord Bolton to retake the  north . [12] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Hosteen and Aenys are present at the wedding of  Ramsay Bolton  to " Arya Stark ", who is actually  Jeyne Poole , at  Winterfell . [13]  In the worsening cold, he loses an ear to frostbite. When several men-at-arms are murdered Hosteen at first suspects  Theon Greyjoy  but later suspects Lord  Wyman Manderly  of ordering the deaths. Ser  Jared Frey ,  Symond Frey  and  Rhaegar Frey  went to  White Harbor  to treat with Wyman and have not been seen since, to which Hosteen suspects foul play. When  Little Walder Frey  is found dead at the  First Keep , Hosteen accuses Lord Manderly, who denies the charge while insulting  House Frey . This enrages Hosteen, who attacks Wyman and would have killed him if not for the intervention of  White Harbor  knights. [14] 
 In order to prevent a battle inside the castle between his own army, Roose Bolton sends Hosteen and Aenys in the vanguard to attack  Stannis Baratheon 's army. [14] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 The Frey vanguard falls into a pit trap set by  Mors Umber . Aenys is killed, placing Hosteen, whom Stannis refers to as "Ser Stupid", in command of the Frey force sent to battle Stannis. [5] 
 
 Quotes 
 Wyman:   White Harbor  does not fear to ride with you, Ser Hosteen. Lead us out, and my knights will ride behind you. 
 Hosteen:  Close enough to drive a lance through my back, aye. Where are my kin, Manderly? Tell me that. [15] 
  -  Wyman Manderly  and Hosteen
 Quotes about Hosteen 
 Angry foes do not concern me. Anger makes men stupid, and Hosteen Frey was stupid to begin with, if half of what I have heard of him is true. Let him come. [5] 
  -  Stannis Baratheon  to  Theon Greyjoy 
 Family 
 
   Walder   Amarei Crakehall             
                                                                                                                                   
 Hosteen   Bellena Hawick   Lucias Vypren   Lythene   Symond   Betharios of Braavos   Danwell   Wynafrei Whent                 
                                                                                                                           
 Arwood   Ryella Royce   Damon Vypren   Elyana Vypren   Jon Wylde   Alesander   Alyx   Bradamar           
                                                                                       
 Ryella   Androw   Alyn   Hostella   Rickard Wylde   
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                     
               Merrett   Mariya Darry                     Geremy   Carolei Waynwood           
                                                                                                                                                     
 Pate of the Blue Fork   Amerei   Lancel Lannister   "Fat" Walda   Roose Bolton   Marissa   "Little" Walder   Sandor   Cynthea           
 
 
 
 
                                                         
                     Raymund   Beony Beesbury       
                                                                                                                             
 Robert   Malwyn   Sarra   Serra   Cersei   Tywin   Jaime   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Hosteen Frey  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 64 , Arya X. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 20 , Reek II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     The Winds of Winter ,  Chapter  ,  Theon . 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 59 , Catelyn IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 51 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Hosteen_Frey&oldid=218760 "  
 Categories :  House Frey Characters from the Riverlands Hostages of House Lannister in the War of the Five Kings Knights Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Turncloaks in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
