
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Ilyn Payne 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Ilyn Payne  
 Ilyn Payne, by Amok. 
 Title 
 Ser Captain of the guard  (formerly) King's Justice Allegiance 
 House Payne Culture 
 Westermen Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Wilko Johnson TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Ser  Ilyn Payne  is a  knight  from  House Payne . He serves as the  King's Justice , the royal executioner, for King  Robert I Baratheon . Ilyn is a cousin to  Podrick Payne . [1] [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Wilko Johnson .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Ilyn Payne 
 Ilyn is a grim man, thin, with a beardless, pockmarked face. He has a deep set of pale, colorless eyes and hollow cheeks. He is almost completely bald. He wears iron-grey chainmail over boiled leather with a large greatsword worn over his right shoulder. [3] 
 It has been mentioned more than once in the story that Ilyn lives for nothing but killing. [4]  Due to his appearance as well as his silence, many characters find him terrifying, a suitable trait for the King's Justice.
 While Ilyn keeps his weaponry immaculate, his chambers within the  Red Keep 's dungeon are poorly kept. Since he cannot read or write, he delegates to underlings, such as  Rennifer Longwaters . [4] 
 
 History 
   Ser Ilyn Payne - by Brittmartin ©. 
 Ser Ilyn was the captain of Lord  Tywin Lannister 's  guard  when he was  Hand of the King  for King  Aerys II Targaryen . He was heard saying that it was Tywin who truly ruled the  Seven Kingdoms , rather than Aerys. The king had Ilyn's tongue torn out with hot pincers for the comment. [5] [3] 
 Ilyn was named as the  King's Justice  by King  Robert I Baratheon  as a wedding present for Tywin. It was a sinecure to compensate Ilyn for the tongue he lost in the service of  House Lannister . Ilyn is an extremely skilled executioner. He has never botched an execution and seldom requires more than a single stroke to finish off his charges.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Ser Ilyn Payne - by Mark Evans ©. 
 Ser Ilyn is one of the councilors who come north to escort King  Robert I Baratheon  back to  King's Landing  after his trip to  Winterfell .  Sansa Stark  sees Ilyn and is terrified by him. [3] 
 When  Eddard Stark  is arrested by the  Lannisters  after Robert's death, Ilyn takes Lord Stark’s ancestral  Valyrian steel  greatsword,  Ice , for his own. He later executes Lord Stark at the  Great Sept of Baelor  with Eddard's own sword. [6] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Ilyn's execution of Ned Stark awards him a place on  Arya Stark 's  list . [7] 
 During the  Battle of the Blackwater , Queen  Cersei Lannister  has Ilyn remain with her in the Queen's Ballroom of  Maegor's Holdfast , in the Red Keep. [8]  When  Osfryd Kettleblack  informs the Queen that a groom and two maidsevants where caught trying to flee the Red Keep with three of the king's horses, she has Ser Ilyn execute them and place their heads on pike outside the stables. The reason for Ser Ilyn's presence, however, is to have him kill Sansa and herself if  Stannis  is victorious. [9] 
 When the turncloaks and hostages of the Battle of the Blackwater are presented in the throne room,  Joffrey  beckons Ser Ilyn to execute a  bastard  of  House Florent  who remains defiant and hails Stannis as the true king and denounces Joffrey as a monster and abomination born of incest. [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  takes Ice from Ilyn and presents him with a new sword. Ilyn is present at King  Joffrey Baratheon 's  wedding feast . Joffrey asks him for his sword so he and his new wife,  Margaery Tyrell , can cut the huge dove pie. Ilyn now wields a greatsword that is six feet long and is silver bright with runes. The blade is decorated with ruby eyes on its pommel and has a chunk of  dragonglass  carved in the shape of a grinning skull. [11] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Ser  Jaime Lannister  demanded the services of Ser Ilyn on his ride north to  Riverrun  - by Pojypojy ©. 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister  demands the services of Ser Ilyn on his ride north to  Riverrun  as a condition for leading the expedition. Ilyn begins practicing the sword with Jaime when they stop at  Hayford . Jaime chooses Ilyn as his sparring partner because Ilyn can neither talk, read nor write. As a result of this, Jaime reveals many of his darker secrets to Ilyn, knowing the mute and illiterate knight can never reveal it to anyone. [4] 
 During the  siege of Riverrun , a camp follower shrinks away from Ilyn in fear. Jaime has Ilyn cut down  Edmure Tully  from the gallows upon which he has oft been threatened by Ser  Ryman Frey . [12] 
 
 Quotes 
 Oft-times Ser Ilyn frightens me as well, sweet lady. He has a fearsome aspect. [3] 
  –  Barristan Selmy  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Ser Ilyn has not been feeling talkative these past fourteen years. [3] 
  –  Renly Baratheon  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 He does so love his work… [13] 
  –  Varys  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Ser Ilyn made the perfect drinking companion. He never interrupted, never disagreed, never complained or asked for favors or told long pointless stories. All he did was drink and listen. [14] 
  – thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 59 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 11 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 65 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 26 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 60 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Ilyn_Payne&oldid=205614 "  
 Categories :  House Payne Captains of the guards Characters from the Westerlands House Baratheon retainers House Lannister guards Knights Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Members of Robert Baratheon's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Tongueless Nobles Torturers and executioners   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
