
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Emmett 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 (Redirected from  Iron Emmett ) 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Emmett    
 Art by Cindy Kinnard 
 Alias 
Iron Emmett Allegiance 
 Night's Watch Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Emmett , called  Iron Emmett , is a young ranger of the  Night's Watch . [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Feast for Crows 
 2.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Emmett 
 4   Quotes about Emmett 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Iron Emmett 
 Emmett is tall and lanky. He has great endurance and strength and is a terrific swordsman; he is considered the pride of  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Iron Emmett comes to  Castle Black  from  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea  and takes part in the election of the new  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch . While at Castle Black, he trains with  Jon Snow  and is able to best his future Lord Commander in several training sessions. During one sparring,  Halder  and  Horse  come to Emmett's aid when a distracted Jon does not notice that Emmett has yielded. [1] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Emmett is the new master-at-arms at Castle Black. [2] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Jon oversees Iron Emmett's training sessions with the new recruits Horse and  Hop-Robin , noting that although  Cotter Pyke  was upset at losing Eastwatch's best swordsman, Emmett is a natural teacher who knows how to train men how to fight and loves doing it. [3] 
 Emmett is one of the men brought by Jon to escort  Janos Slynt  out of  Castle Black  to carry out his duties as garrison commander of  Greyguard . Jon orders Janos to be hanged when he refuses to obey, however, Emmett chokes Janos into submission hen he attempts to escape. Emmett kicks Janos to his knees and places his head on the chopping block when Jon orders Janos be beheaded instead. [4] 
 Emmett's best trainees are  Arron ,  Emrick , and  Jace . [5]  The three, along with  Jax ,  Leathers , and  Satin , are later admitted to the Watch. [6] 
 Jon eventually names Emmett commander of  Long Barrow , where Jon sends the  free folk   spearwives . [6]  Jon names Leathers as Emmett's replacement as master-at-arms. [7]   Dolorous Edd  mentions to Jon that Emmett has begun bedding  Black Maris , one of the spearwives. [8] 
 
 Quotes by Emmett 
 Gods be good, our  Lord Commander's  still in swaddling clothes. I hope this don't mean I can't beat the bloody piss out of you next time we train, my lord. [1] 
  - Emmett to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Men are men, vows are words, and words are wind. [6] 
  - Emmett to  Jon Snow 
 Quotes about Emmett 
 Emmett was an amiable man, and he loved the song of swords. [1] 
  - thoughts of  Jon Snow 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 79 , Jon XII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 3 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 7 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 35 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 39 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 58 , Jon XII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Emmett&oldid=212361 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Westeros Members of the Night's Watch Masters-at-arms Rangers of the Night's Watch   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
