
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jacelyn Bywater 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Jacelyn Bywater  
 © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Alias 
Ironhand Title 
 Ser Captain of the  Mud Gate Commander of the City Watch Lord Allegiance 
 House Bywater City Watch of King's Landing Died 
In  299 AC , at  King's Landing Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) 
 Ser  Jacelyn Bywater , called  Ironhand , is a  knight  of  House Bywater . He is a serving officer of the  City Watch of King's Landing , and captain of the  Mud Gate .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Jacelyn Bywater 
 Ser Jacelyn is tall, lantern jawed, with deep-set eyes, a prominent brow and salt-and-pepper hair. He has an iron hand strapped to his right wrist where he lost his hand, hence his nickname. He is considered brave and honorable, but is seen as rigid by the corrupt  Janos Slynt . [1] 
 
 History 
 Jacelyn is of a lesser branch of  House Bywater  and was too poor to afford a  knighthood . He came by it only as a reward from King  Robert I Baratheon , for his part in  Greyjoy's Rebellion  when he fought with distinction at  Pyke , where he lost his hand. He has been captain of the  Mud Gate  in  King's Landing  for three years when  Tyrion Lannister  arrives to take up the position of  Hand of the King  in  299 AC . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Ser Jacelyn is named  Commander of the City Watch  by  Tyrion Lannister  after Tyrion dismisses  Janos Slynt . [1]  He receives Ser  Cleos Frey  when the latter arrives to give the terms from  Robb Stark . [2]  After the  riots  during Princess  Myrcella's  departure to  Dorne , Jacelyn tells Tyrion about the spread of  bloody flux  at Pisswater Bend, about the growing revolt among the smallfolk, and how Tyrion is personally blamed for the hard times. [3]  Jacelyn obeys Tyrion's orders to seize Prince  Tommen  on the  Rosby road , imprisoning Lord  Gyles Rosby  in the process, and keeping him safe and out of reach of  Cersei Lannister . For this he earns Cersei's enmity, as well as a lordship from Tyrion. [4] 
 During the  Battle of the Blackwater , Lord Jacelyn is one of the commanders of the forces sworn to King  Joffrey I . Although the plan created by Tyrion succeeds in destroying part of  Stannis Baratheon 's forces, the better part of Stannis's army is able to cross the  Blackwater Rush  to assault the gates. When the City Watch sees Joffrey retreating to the  Red Keep  they break. Jacelyn tries to rally them and seems to succeed, but he is killed when an arrow from an unknown quarter finds his throat. [5] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 8 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 20 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jacelyn_Bywater&oldid=216110 "  
 Categories :  House Bywater Characters from the Crownlands Members of the City Watch (King's Landing) Commanders of the City Watch (King's Landing) Knights Nobles Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Followers and collaborators of Tyrion Lannister   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
