
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jaremy Rykker 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Jaremy Rykker  
 Ser Jaremy Rykker - by Ramon Ignacio Bunge 
 Title 
 Ser First Ranger  (acting) Allegiance 
 House Rykker Night's Watch Culture 
 crownlands Died 
In  298 AC , at  Castle Black Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Ser  Jaremy Rykker  is a  ranger  of the  Night's Watch  and a  knight  from  House Rykker .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 According to  Tyrion Lannister , Jaremy has a noble face. [1]  He is not known for his patience [2]  and has a sardonic smile. [1] 
 
 History 
 Jaremy remained loyal to  Aerys II Targaryen  during  Robert's Rebellion . After the  Sack of King's Landing , he was given the choice by Lord  Tywin Lannister  between the  Wall  or execution. Both Jaremy and Ser  Alliser Thorne  joined the  Night's Watch . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Jaremy is present when  Tyrion Lannister  has dinner at  Castle Black  with  Jeor Mormont , the  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , and other senior officers. [1] 
 After  First Ranger   Benjen Stark  goes missing  beyond the Wall , Jaremy leads two sweeps in search of him, while  Qhorin Halfhand  leads another search party going north from the  Shadow Tower . Nothing is found except a few blazes in trees that Benjen used to mark his way. The marks stop in the stony highlands to the northwest and all trace of Benjen vanishes. [3] 
 Jaremy serves as First Ranger in the absence of Benjen. He is present during the swearing-in ceremony for the new members of the Night's Watch at the sept of Castle Black and again when  Jon Snow ,  Samwell Tarly , and others are sworn in at the  weirwood  grove beyond the Wall. [4] 
 After the latter ceremony, the bodies of two rangers are found by  Ghost  and Jaremy identifies them as  Othor  and  Jafer Flowers , who both belonged to Benjen's party. Lord Commander Mormont is displeased that Benjen has not been found and rangers have died close to the Wall, but Jaremy explains he lacks rangers and that the Lord Commander had ordered closer patrols. When they return to Castle Black, Jeor conveys an order to Jaremy through Jon Snow to put the dead men into a storeroom until Maester  Aemon  is ready to examine them. [2] 
 At Castle Back, Jafer Flowers rises as a  wight  and kills five people, including Jaremy. The knight manages to hack the wight's already loose head off with his sword, but is killed nonetheless when the headless wight pulls his dagger from its sheath and thrusts it into Jaremy's bowels. [5] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Thoren Smallwood  states he is First Ranger with Benjen lost and Jaremy killed, a claim rejected by Lord Commander Mormont. [6]  Thoren receives Jaremy's clothing and armor, right down to the  House Rykker  emblem used as a clasp on Jaremy's cloak, as the Night's Watch does not waste things. [7] 
 The death of Jaremy by the hand of a  wight  is brought up by Lord Commander Mormont in his conversation with  Craster . [8] 
 Ser  Alliser Thorne  mentions in front of the  Iron Throne  that Jaremy has been killed by a wight, when he appeals to the Crown to provide more men for the  Night's Watch , causing people to snigger and  Tyrion Lannister  to mock Alliser. [8] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 When  Mance Rayder  questions  Jon Snow  at the  Fist of the First Men , he asks him who had been in command there, suggesting, among others, that it might have been Jaremy. After some hesitation, Jon admits that the ranging was led by Lord Commander Mormont himself. [9] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 As the  wildlings  are about to pass through the Wall, Lord Commander  Jon Snow  has last doubts about his decision, thinking that a more experienced man should have dealt with  Tormund Giantsbane . In this context, he thinks of Jaremy, among others. [10] 
 
 Quotes 
 Jeor : Ser  Alliser  is an anointed  knight , one of the few to  take the black  since I have been  Lord Commander . He fought bravely at  King's Landing . 
 Jaremy : On the wrong side. I ought to know, I was there on the battlements beside him.  Tywin Lannister  gave us a splendid choice. Take the black, or see our heads on spikes before evenfall. No offense intended, Tyrion. 
 
 Tyrion : None taken, Ser Jaremy. My father is very fond of spiked heads, especially those of people who have annoyed him in some fashion. And a face as noble as yours, well, no doubt he saw you decorating the city wall above the  King's Gate . I think you would have looked very striking up there. [1] 
  -  Jeor Mormont , Jaremy, and  Tyrion Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 21 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 52 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 26 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 48 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 60 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 6 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 13 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 15 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 58 , Jon XII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jaremy_Rykker&oldid=216425 "  
 Categories :  House Rykker Casualties of the Conflict beyond the Wall Characters from the Crownlands Nobles Rangers of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
