
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Español Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jhiqui 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Jhiqui 
 © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Culture 
 Dothraki Born 
In  284 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Sarita Piotrowski TV series 
 Season 1 
 Jhiqui  is a  Dothraki  handmaiden of  Daenerys Targaryen .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Jhiqui 
 She has skin the color of copper, with black hair and almond-shaped eyes. [2]  She has wide hips and heavy breasts, and is bigger boned than  Irri . [3] 
 She is of an age with  Daenerys Targaryen  and  Irri . [4] 
 
 History 
 Jhiqui was born in a rival  khalasar  which was defeated by Khal  Drogo . She was enslaved. [ citation needed ] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Sarita Piotrowski as Jhiqui on HBO's adaptation 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Jhiqui,  Doreah , and  Irri  are given to  Daenerys Targaryen  as wedding gifts to serve as her handmaids. [4]  She is given to Daenerys to teach her the  Dothraki  tongue. [2] 
 Jhiqui remains with Daenerys after the death of Khal  Drogo . [5] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After struggling through the  red waste ,  Irri  and Jhiqui attempt to convince Daenerys not to stay in  Vaes Tolorro , believing it haunted by ghosts. [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Jhiqui is present when Daenerys purchases the  Unsullied . Jhiqui and Irri free  Rhaegal  and  Viserion  to attack the  Astapori  slavers when Daenerys has the Unsullied attack their former masters. [7]  She later praises  Strong Belwas  in defeating  Oznak zo Pahl  and remarks she would braid his hair the Dothraki way if he had any. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Jhiqui and  Irri  both develop a crush on  Rakharo  who has grown more tall and muscular. Both argue who he would prefer. [9] 
 Jhiqui later accompanies Daenerys to  Daznak's Pit  as part of the royal procession. [10]  She and Irri both depart  Meereen  as part of the search parties dispatched across the  Skahazadhan  to locate Daenerys when she disappears on  Drogon 's back. [11] 
 
 Quotes 
 It is known. 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Jhiqui  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 3 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 68 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jhiqui&oldid=205437 "  
 Categories :  Articles with unsourced statements Characters from the Dothraki sea Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Members of Drogo's khalasar Slaves and freedmen Hidden category:  Articles that Need Verification   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
