
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jhogo 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Jhogo 
 Jhogo by  the Mico © 
 Title 
 Ko Bloodrider Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Culture 
 Dothraki Born 
In or between  281 AC  and  283 AC [1] , at  Dothraki sea Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
   Jhogo by  Cloudninja9 © 
 Jhogo  is a  Dothraki  horserider of  Daenerys Targaryen 's  khas  who later becomes one of her bloodriders.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character and Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   References 
 
 
 Character and Appearance 
 Jhogo is very thin with a faint shadow of a mustache. He is fearless and quick to laugh. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Jhogo is one of four  Dothraki  warriors assigned to the  khas  of  Daenerys Targaryen  within the  khalasar  of Khal  Drogo . When  Viserys Targaryen  attacks his sister in the  Dothraki Sea , Jhogo uses his whip to separate them. [3]  He accompanies Daenerys during her visit to the Western Market in  Vaes Dothrak . He helps stop an assassination attempt on Daenerys' life by a wineseller by ensnaring the man with his whip. He is given a tall, grey stallion by Drogo as a reward. [4] 
 When Daenerys intends to have Drogo healed using blood magic by  Mirri Maz Duur , his  bloodriders  attempt to stop it. In the ensuing fight, Jhogo and  Rakharo  team up to kill  Haggo . [2] 
 When Daenerys names Jhogo  ko  and asks him to become one of her bloodriders alongside  Aggo  and  Rakharo , she offers him the silver-handled whip she received as a present during her wedding. He is at first reluctant, but he is the first of the three to accept after the  dragons  are born. [5] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 During their journey across the  red waste , Jhogo advises Daenerys to either tie the dying  Doreah  to a horse saddle or leave her. [6] 
 While her  khalasar  rests in  Vaes Tolorro  after crossing the  Red Waste , Daenerys orders her three bloodriders to scout out the country, each one in a different direction. Jhogo leaves to the south-east and follows the  shierak qiya . He is the last to return, having found the city of  Qarth , and is accompanied by three representatives of the city,  Pyat Pree ,  Quaithe  and  Xaro Xhoan Daxos . [6] 
 Jhogo leads the procession during Daenerys' visit to the  Hall of a Thousand Thrones  to petition the  Pureborn , using his whip to set the crowd aside. [7]  He brushes  Quaithe  away from touching Daenerys when the shadowbinder warns Daenerys to leave the city. [7] 
 Jhogo later accompanies Daenerys to the  House of the Undying , where he warns her that it is a evil place, a haunt of ghosts and  maegi . [8]  He helps disarm  Pyat Pree  with his whip, after Pree tries to murder Daenerys. [8] 
 Afterwards, Jhogo, along with  Aggo , rides with Daenerys to Qarth's waterfront to seek a ship, where he buys a handful of fat white cherries to eat. [9]  He rushes to Daenerys' aid during her second near assassination attempt and seizes  Artsan Whitebeard  with a knife to his throat before releasing him on Daenerys' order. [9] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Jhogo guards Daenerys when she visits the Plaza of Pride to discuss the purchase of  Unsullied  slaves. He leads the procession back to her ships and almost pulls his silver-handled whip to move back the Astapori crowd, but is stopped by Daenerys before he escalates the situation. [10]  As one of Daenery's three bloodriders, Jhogo is often asked to keep her company as to prevent  Jorah Mormont  from approaching her when alone. [10] 
 Jhogo protects the rear of the litter alongside Rakharo during the  fall of Astapor . He kills several  Good Masters  and Astapori slavers on the day of the battle, taking down one slaver soldier with his silver-handled whip. [11] 
 On the march to  Yunkai , Jhogo and his fellow bloodriders are also made  kos  by Daenerys and are put in charge of commanding the 30-odd mounted  khalasar  remaining to her, leaving their guarding duties to  Arstan Whitebeard  and  Strong Belwas . Jhogo dismisses the threat of the Yunkish scouts and later participates in the  battle of Yunkai , successfully leading the Dothraki mounted warriors in wedge formation against the enemy center. [12] 
 During the  siege of Meereen , Jhogo almost comes to blows with  Aggo  and  Rakharo  over who would fight  Oznak zo Pahl , the Hero of Meereen; Daenerys ultimately stops her bloodriders from fighting, deeming them brave but too young and valuable to lose. [13] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Jhogo and the other Bloodriders continue to serve their  khaleesi .
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Jhogo,  Aggo  and  Rakharo  are commanded by Daenerys to use her  khalasar  to subdue the hinterlands of  Meereen  and end the slavery there. [14]  Ser Barristan later reports the bloodriders successfully harried the slavers from the hills and struck the shackles off the slaves, and are planting and bringing crops to Meereen to market. [15] 
 Daenerys later recalls Jhogo and her other bloodriders back to Meereen. They arrive in time to assist her in feeding the thousands of survivors from the  Siege of Astapor , where Jhogo tries to stop Daenerys from letting the sick refugees touch her. He and Rakharo are shamed into aiding the sufferers of the  bloody flux  by helping them bathe in the nearby ocean. [16] 
 When peace is signed between  Yunkai  and Meereen, Jhogo - along with  Groleo ,  Daario Naharis ,  Hero  and three kin to the new King of Meereen,  Hizdahr zo Loraq  – are given over to the Yunkish camp to vouch for the safety of the seven Yunkai commanders who are allowed to enter the city of Meereen. [17]  When the decapitated head of  Groleo  is presented to  Hizdahr zo Loraq ,  Reznak mo Reznak  demands the remaining hostages to be returned, though only three of Hizdahr's kin are released. [18] 
 At the council called by Ser  Barristan Selmy , the elderly  jaqqa rhan   Rommo  agrees Jhogo must be freed, as he is Daenerys' "blood of her blood" and the honour of the  khalasar  demands it. [19]  Jhogo remains a hostage of the Yunkish. [19] 
 
 Quotes 
 Jhogo was the first to lay his  arakh  at  her feet . " Blood of my blood ," he murmured, pushing his face to the smoking earth. [5] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Jhogo  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 64 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 54 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 72 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 40 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jhogo&oldid=205438 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Dothraki sea Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Members of Drogo's khalasar   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
