
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский Türkçe 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Joffrey Baratheon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 "Joffrey" redirects here. For the historical King of the Rock, see  Joffrey Lannister . For other characters named Joffrey, see  Joffrey (disambiguation) 
  Joffrey Baratheon 
 Prince Joffrey by  Amok© Biographical Information Reign 
 298 AC  -  300 AC Full Name 
Joffrey Baratheon the First of His Name Alias 
Joffrey the Illborn The Young Usurper Aerys the Third Joffrey-called-Baratheon Other Titles 
 King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Lord of the Seven Kingdoms Protector of the Realm Born in 
 286 AC [1] , at  King's Landing [2] Died in 
 300 AC [3] [4] , at  Red Keep ,  King's Landing Family Royal House 
 House Baratheon of King's Landing Predecessor 
 Robert I Baratheon Heir 
 Tommen Baratheon Successor 
 Tommen I Baratheon Queen 
 Margaery Tyrell Father 
 Robert I Baratheon Jaime Lannister  (biological) Mother 
 Cersei Lannister References Books 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) Played by 
 Jack Gleeson TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4 
 Prince  Joffrey Baratheon  is known to the  Seven Kingdoms  as the eldest son and heir of King  Robert I Baratheon  and Queen  Cersei Lannister . A member of  House Baratheon of King's Landing , his siblings are Princess  Myrcella  and Prince  Tommen . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , he is played by  Jack Gleeson .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Joffrey 
 5   Quotes about Joffrey 
 6   Family 
 
 6.1   House Baratheon 
 6.2   House Lannister 
 
 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Joffrey Baratheon 
 Joffrey has the  Lannister  look [5]  and is tall for a boy his age, with blond curly hair. [6]  Known to be handsome, [7]  he has deep green eyes and pouty lips. [6]   Jon Snow  thinks that Joffrey looks like a girl. [7] 
 Twelve years old at the beginning of  A Song of Ice and Fire , [6]  Joffrey was strong-willed as a child. [8]  Although he can be gallant [7]  and courteous, [9]  he has an uncontrollable temper not unlike his mother, Queen  Cersei Lannister , and an unchecked sadistic streak. [10]  He has little sense of right or wrong, which often leads him to trouble, especially when he loses his temper. When things go wrong, Joffrey blames the problems on others. Despite being willful he is reckless, vicious, cruel and not particularly intelligent, all of which combine to make him prone to irrational and bad judgements. [ citation needed ] 
 Joffrey's surcout is divided, showing both the  Baratheon  stag of his father, King  Robert I , and the Lannister lion of his mother, Queen Cersei. [7]  He always wears the finest clothing and accents, as befits the royal heir, [6]  including blue wool, [11]  black leather, [11]  and a deep blue doublet studded with a double row of golden lion's heads. [9]  The prince possesses a slim coronet made of gold and sapphires. [9]  Joffrey wields a longsword named  Lion's Tooth . [11]  His dagger has a jeweled pommel and inlaid goldwork on the blade. [12]  Joffrey is a skilled dancer. [13] 
 
 History 
 Joffrey grew up as a spoiled and indulgent child with a cruel streak within him. His father, King  Robert I Baratheon , is deeply disappointed with his son and feels little affection for Joffrey [14] [15]  – nor did he like the fact that Joffrey would always cry whenever Robert picked him up. [16]  It is implied that Joffrey craves Robert's respect and approval, and many of his acts are done in an effort to live up to his father's standards. [17] 
 Once after learning a kitchen cat was pregnant, Joffrey killed the animal and cut open its belly to see the kittens inside. He showed one of the unborn kittens to his father. Robert was so shocked and angry he hit Joffrey so hard it knocked out two of his baby teeth. [18]  Queen  Cersei Lannister  believes Robert would have beaten the boy if she had allowed it. [19]  It is also implied Joffrey bullied his younger brother,  Tommen . [20] 
 Cersei assigned  Sandor Clegane  to be her son's  sworn shield . [11]  While Sandor is widely known as the  Hound , Joffrey refers to his guardian as "dog". [21] 
 For Joffrey's twelfth name day, King Robert organized a  tourney in King's Landing  in  298 AC , where, amongst others, Lord  Walder Frey , Lord  Jon Arryn , Lord  Stannis Baratheon , and Ser  Davos Seaworth  were present. [22] [23] [24]  Following the tourney, Joffrey and his siblings traveled with Cersei to  Casterly Rock  with their grandfather, Lord  Tywin Lannister . [25] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Joffrey and the rest of the royal family take the  kingsroad  to  Winterfell  after Lord  Jon Arryn 's death, as King  Robert I Baratheon  asks Lord  Eddard Stark  to become the new  Hand of the King . [22]  Joffrey begins to court the pretty  Sansa Stark , Eddard's eldest daughter, to whom he has been betrothed. [26] [7]  Joffrey spars with  Robb Stark  in the yard and insults him. [7]  He later joins his father during a hunt. [27] 
 After  Bran Stark  is critically injured after falling from the  First Keep , Joffrey's uncle,  Tyrion Lannister , slaps Joffrey for speaking rudely of the boy's condition. [28]  Tyrion is later blamed [29]  when  an assassin  with a  Valyrian steel dagger  fails in an attempt to murder the comatose Bran, which furthers the growing enmity between Houses  Stark  and  Lannister . [30] 
 On the way from Winterfell to  King's Landing , Joffrey spends a day riding and drinking  wine  with Sansa. They come upon  Arya Stark  and her friend  Mycah , a butcher's boy, who are practicing sword fighting. A drunk Joffrey commands Mycah to spar with him. When Mycah does not take up the challenge, Joffrey pricks him with his sword,  Lion's Tooth , while ignoring pleas to leave the boy alone. Arya smacks him with her stick, allowing Mycah to escape. An enraged Joffrey slashes at Arya, but is injured when her direwolf,  Nymeria , protects her. [11]  Arya takes Lion's Tooth from him and hurls it towards the  Trident . Humiliated and in pain, Joffrey angrily lashes out at Sansa while Arya and Nymeria flee. [11] 
 Joffrey later claims before his father's court at  Darry  that he had been attacked by Mycah and Nymeria. Search parties are sent out to find Mycah, Nymeria and Arya.  Sandor Clegane  rides down Mycah, while Sansa's direwolf,  Lady , is executed after Queen  Cersei Lannister  interferes. This earns Joffrey the hatred of Arya. Robert's younger brother, Lord  Renly Baratheon , openly laughs at his nephew for being beaten and disarmed by a girl younger than him. [31] 
 While drinking with Eddard Stark at the  Hand's tourney  at King's Landing, King Robert openly despairs of his son and heir, revealing to his old friend that he has often thought of abdicating; the only thing that stops him is the thought of Joffrey sitting on the Iron Throne with his mother whispering in his ear. [32] 
 Acting as the new Hand, Ned Stark discovers that Joffrey, along with his siblings, are actually  bastards  born of  incest  between Cersei and her twin, Ser  Jaime  of Robert's  Kingsguard . [33] [34]  Robert never questioned the boy's parentage. Cersei protects her children's secret by arranging for Robert's death by increasing the strength of his favorite wine which he drinks while hunting in the  kingswood . [35] [36] 
 Following Robert's death, Joffery summons the council and commands that they make arrangements for his coronation as  Lord of the Seven Kingdoms . When Ned produces Robert's will, which declares Ned regent and mentions "the heir" rather than specifying Joffrey as heir to the  Iron Throne , Cersei tears it up and advises Ned to swear fealty to her son. Ned in turn reveals that Joffrey has no claim to the throne and that his uncle, Lord  Stannis Baratheon , is the true heir, but Eddard is quickly arrested for treason. [36] 
 
   Joffrey sitting on the  Iron Throne  - by Magali Villeneuve © 
 After taking the Iron Throne as Robert's heir, Joffrey starts his first court session by naming his grandfather, Lord  Tywin Lannister , as the new Hand of the King, appointing his mother to the  small council  and  Jaime Lannister  as  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , and dismissing the legendary knight  Barristan Selmy  from his service, against all traditions. When Barristan storms out in disgust, making a remark about the ease with which Stannis would take the throne from him, Joffrey orders Barristan seized and questioned, [21]  though the old knight escapes. [37]  The vacancy on the Kingsguard is filled by Joffrey's  sworn shield ,  Sandor Clegane , the first person to serve on the Kingsguard without having earned  knighthood . [21]  Further during the court session, Sansa, to whom Joffrey is still betrothed, kneels and begs for him to spare her father Eddard's life, asking that Joffrey to do this for love of her. Joffrey promises Sansa that he will be merciful. [21]  However, after Eddard confesses his crimes and declares that Joffrey is the true heir to the Iron Throne, Joffrey's mercy turns out to be Eddard's public beheading by Ser  Ilyn Payne  before Sansa's eyes at the  Great Sept of Baelor . [38]  This rash act is against his family's wishes to minimize further bloodshed and restore the king's peace [39]  and leads to the intensification of  hostilities .
 Eddard's son Robb captures Jaime in the  Whispering Wood [40]  and is declared the  King in the North  at  Riverrun  after the  Battle of the Camps . [41]  Robb intends to kill Joffrey in retaliation for Ned's death, [41]  plunging Westeros into devastating civil war.
 Joffrey continues to mistreat and abuse Sansa, a penalty for each of Robb's victories. Forcing her to look at her father Eddard's severed head is the start of a string of beatings he commands his Kingsguard to abuse her with. He threatens to force her to look on her brother Robb's head when he kills him, as he boasts, in single combat. [42]  Joffrey fancies himself a warrior, and considers leading the  City Watch of King's Landing  into the field. Cersei withholds the news of Renly's coronation at  Highgarden  from Joffrey lest he insist on marching against him. [39] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   King Joffrey Baratheon - by Magali Villeneuve © 
 Stannis Baratheon , Lord of  Dragonstone  and the brother of King  Renly  and the late King  Robert , has his supporters spread the message that Joffrey and his siblings, Prince  Tommen  and Princess  Myrcella , are  bastard  abominations. Stannis presses his own claim to the  Iron Throne . [43] [44]  After Renly's death at  Storm's End , Stannis hopes to present Robert's bastard,  Edric Storm , as proof that Joffrey is illegitimate. [45]   Arya Stark , incognito in the  riverlands , includes Joffrey in a list of those she wants dead. [46] 
 Ser  Arys Oakheart  tells  Sansa Stark  that  smallfolk  refer to the  red comet  as King Joffrey's Comet. During a  small tourney  held to honor the boy king's name day, Sansa convinces Joffrey to spare the life of the drunken Ser  Dontos Hollard , who becomes Joffrey's new  fool . [47]  While  Tywin Lannister  is Joffrey's  Hand of the King , Tywin is on campaign during during the  War of the Five Kings .  Tyrion Lannister , Tywin's son and Joffrey's uncle, acts as Hand in Tywin's stead. [47] 
 Joffrey rules with whim and caprice, proving difficult for even his mother to control. Sansa becomes imprisoned to his will, and he frequently has his  Kingsguard , with the exception of the  Hound , beat her when she displeases him. [47]  When he tries to have her stripped, however, he is stopped by Tyrion. [10]  Although Joffrey never tries it again, he is determined to eventually have Sansa in his bed whether he marries her or not. [16] [48] 
 Joffrey's cruelty and the decreased quality of life at King's Landing due to food shortages and other hardships make Joffrey an unpopular king, and he is nearly killed in a  riot  sparked by his temper. [49]  Acting as his temporary Hand, only Tyrion stands up to Joffrey's authority, and the king develops a special hatred for his uncle. Tyrion, in return, holds his nephew in contempt, viewing him as a monster.
 During the  Battle of the Blackwater , Joffrey wears gilded mail and enameled crimson plate, with a golden lion on his helm, and he carries a new blade,  Hearteater . [50]  The king commands the  Three Whores  during the battle. [51]  When Stannis's men begin to attack the gates of King's Landing,  Cersei Lannister  has Ser  Osmund Kettleblack  bring the king to the safety of the Red Keep. [52]  Although this leads many of the  gold cloaks  to abandon their posts and the Hound's fear of  wildfire  causes him to flee, Stannis is ultimately defeated by the arrival of Lords Tywin and  Mace Tyrell . [53] 
 Following the battle, Joffrey rewards many of the survivors in the throne room. The king puts aside his betrothal to Sansa and instead promises to wed  Margaery Tyrell , Mace's daughter and the widow of Renly. He is excused from court after cutting his arm on the Iron Throne. [48] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  becomes Joffrey's  Hand of the King , replacing  Tyrion . [3]  Most of  Stannis Baratheon 's supporters who survived the Blackwater submit to Joffrey. [54]  At  Dragonstone ,  Melisandre  burns leeches which have fed on  Edric Storm  in attempts to kill Kings Joffrey,  Balon Greyjoy , and  Robb Stark . [55] 
 Sansa Stark  informs  Olenna Tyrell ,  Margaery's  grandmother, of Joffrey's cruel personality. [5]  Tywin arranges the marriage of Sansa to Tyrion, and Joffrey intends to be present for the bedding. The king is outraged when Tyrion threatens to geld him in defense of his new wife, however. [13] 
 Joffrey is delighted when he hears of  Robb Stark 's death at the  Red Wedding  and wants his head so he can serve it to Sansa at his own wedding, in addition to wanting to show no mercy to the  northern  and  river  lords who surrendered following Robb Stark's death. Tywin instructs Joffrey to be merciful in victory, but then sends the king from the Hand's solar when Joffrey is insulting in response. [56] 
 
   Depiction of The Purple Wedding by  Conor Campbell© 
 Prior to his wedding, Joffrey receives a  goldenheart  bow from  Jalabhar Xho , riding boots from  Tanda Stokeworth , a jousting saddle from  Kevan Lannister , scorpion brooch from  Oberyn Martell , silver spurs from  Addam Marbrand , and a tourney pavilion from  Mathis Rowan . The king is presented with a model of a war galley by  Paxter Redwyne , who says  King Joffrey's Valor  is being built for him at the  Arbor . Tyrion gives Joffrey a rare book,  Lives of Four Kings , and Mace gifts him a seven-sided wedding chalice. [57] 
 Tywin gives his grandson a  Valyrian steel  sword as a wedding present, which Joffrey names  Widow's Wail . Joffrey slices  Lives of Four Kings  with his new sword, demanding a better present from Tyrion and Sansa. [57]  Since Joffrey boasts that he is no stranger to the metal, Tyrion thinks that Joffrey is referring to the  Valyrian steel dagger  given to the  assassin  at  Winterfell , though he is unable to fathom why, attributing it to Joffrey's innate cruelty. [4]   Jaime  later deduces that Joffrey did it in an attempt to impress his father after overhearing a drunken  Robert  say it would be kinder to put the crippled  Bran Stark  out of his misery. [17] 
 Joffrey's marriage to Margaery in  300 AC  is on the first day of the new century at the  Great Sept of Baelor . [4]  During his wedding feast in the  Red Keep 's throne room, Joffrey pours wine from his new chalice atop Tyrion when his uncle refuses to join the  dwarfs  reenacting the  War of the Five Kings , and the king forces Tyrion to serve as his cupbearer. [4]  Joffrey is  poisoned  after eating pigeon pie and drinking wine, and he dies while the entire court looks on, his face turning black as he asphyxiates while tearing at his throat. Cersei blames the deed on Tyrion and Sansa. [4] 
 While Tyrion is taken into custody by the Kingsguard, Sansa escapes King's Landing with the aid of  Petyr Baelish . [58]  Littlefinger reveals that he orchestrated the plot with Olenna Tyrell. [59]  Due to the color of the amethysts in the unknowing Sansa's hairnet [58]  used to poison Joffrey's wine, [60]  and the actual color of the wine, the wedding has since been referred to by fans as the  Purple Wedding .
 Joffrey is laid in state in the Red Keep's sept in gilded armor, and when Jaime returns to King's Landing he makes love to Cersei in front of the corpse. [61]  He is ultimately laid to rest in the  Great Sept of Baelor . [62]  Because Joffrey was poisoned, Jaime tasks Ser  Boros Blount  with tasting all of King  Tommen I Baratheon 's food and drink. [62]  He refuses to recognize Joffrey as his son. [17] 
 During Tyrion's trial for Joffrey's death, witnesses downplay the king's behavior and exaggerate Tyrion's actions. [63] [64]  Tyrion demands  trial by battle , and he is represent by Oberyn Martell, who seeks vengeance for the death of his sister,  Elia  of  Dorne , who was killed years ago by the crown's representative, Ser  Gregor Clegane . The Mountain kills the Red Viper in combat, however, and Tyrion is deemed to be guilty by  the gods . [64]  Before Tyrion can be executed for Joffrey's death, Jaime frees his brother from the dungeon. Angry at Jaime having deceived him about his first wife,  Tysha , Tyrion lies and takes responsibility for Joffrey's death. [65] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Joffrey, with the exception of his mother  Cersei , [66]  is not particularly mourned by anyone; even his biological father, Jaime, feels that Joffrey deserved his fate [17]  and wants Tommen to be different. [67]  Tyrion believes that Joffrey would have become a worse king than the  Mad King . [65]   Arys Oakheart  thinks the only good thing that could be said of Joffrey is that he was tall and strong for his age. [68]  Because of Joffrey, Ser  Kevan Lannister  considers Cersei to be an unfit mother. [69] 
 Joffrey's younger brother, King  Tommen I Baratheon , weds his widow,  Margaery Tyrell . [70]  Cersei is troubled by Tommen's meekness in comparison to Joffrey. [69]  Because  Myrcella  is older than Tommen,  Arianne Martell  tries [68]  but fails to crown Myrcella as queen. [71] 
 One of  Cersei's dromonds  is named  Brave Joffrey  in the late king's honor. [66] 
 
 Quotes by Joffrey 
 I cannot abide the wailing of women. [28] —Joffrey to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 My mother  bids me let Lord  Eddard   take the black , and Lady  Sansa  has begged mercy for her father. But they have the soft hearts of women. So long as I am your king, treason shall never go unpunished. Ser Ilyn, bring me his head! [38] —Joffrey, to the assembled crowd of  King's Landing , and  Ilyn Payne 
 
 Tywin : Joffrey, when your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire. When they go to their knees, however, you must help them back to their feet. Elsewise no man will ever bend the knee to you. And any man who must say 'I am the king' is no true king at all.  Aerys  never understood that, but you will. When I've won  your war  for you, we will restore the king's peace and the king's justice. The only head that need concern you is  Margaery Tyrell 's maidenhead. 
 Joffrey:  You talk about Aerys, Grandfather, but you were scared of him. 
 Cersei:  Joffrey, apologize to your grandfather. 
 
 Joffrey:  Why should I? Everyone knows it's true.  My father  won all the battles. He killed Prince  Rhaegar  and took the crown, while  your  father was hiding under  Casterly Rock . A  strong  king acts boldly, he doesn't just talk. [56] — Tywin Lannister , Joffrey, and  Cersei Lannister 
 
 Joffrey:  I want to see, kof, see you ride that, kof kof,  pig ,  Uncle . I want... 
 Margaery:  Your Grace? 
 
 Joffrey:  It's, kof, the pie, noth- kof, pie. I, kof, I can't, kof kof kof kof... [4] —Joffrey and  Margaery Tyrell  as he dies 
 
 Quotes about Joffrey 
 Joffrey is truly a little shit. [7] — Jon Snow  to  Arya Stark 
 
 She could not hate Joffrey tonight. He was too beautiful to hate. [9] —thoughts of  Sansa Stark 
 
 I am sorry for  your girl , Ned. Truly. About  the wolf , I mean. My son was lying, I'd stake my soul on it. My son ... [32] — Robert Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 I have dreamed of giving up the crown. Take ship for the  Free Cities  with my horse and my hammer, spend my time warring and whoring, that's what I was made for. The sellsword king, how the singers would love me. You know what stops me? The thought of Joffrey on  the throne , with  Cersei  standing behind him whispering in his ear. My son. How could I have made a son like that, Ned? [32] — Robert Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 Cersei :  She  would have done anything for Joffrey, until he cut off  her father's  head and called it mercy. That put an end to that. 
 Tyrion : His Grace has a unique way of winning the hearts of his subjects. [8] — Cersei Lannister  and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 Joffrey the Illborn, small wonder he's faithless, with the  Kingslayer  for a father. [72] —a  knight  of  House Cerwyn  to  Bran Stark 
 
 Olenna : What sort of man is this Joffrey, who calls himself  Baratheon  but looks so very  Lannister ? 
 Sansa  A monster. Joffrey is a monster. He lied about the  butcher's boy  and made  Father  kill  my wolf . When I displease him, he has the  Kingsguard  beat me. He's evil and cruel, my lady, it's so. And  the queen  as well. [5] — Olenna Tyrell  and  Sansa Stark 
 
 You can lead a king to water, but with Joff one had to splash it about before he realized he could drink it. [58] — Petyr Baelish  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 Tyrion : Joffrey would have been a worse king than  Aerys  ever was. He stole  his father's dagger  and gave it to a footpad to slit the throat of  Brandon Stark , did you know that? 
 Jaime : I ... I thought he might have. 
 
 Tyrion : Well, a son takes after his father. Joffrey would have killed me as well, once he came into his power. For the crime of being short and ugly, of which I am conspicuously guilty. [65] — Tyrion Lannister  to  Jaime Lannister   
 
 Brienne : Joffrey was your... 
 Jaime : My king. Leave it at that. 
 Brienne : You say  Sansa  killed him. Why protect her? 
 
 Jaime : Because Joff was no more to me than a squirt of seed in  Cersei's  cunt. And because he deserved to die. [17] — Jaime Lannister  to  Brienne of Tarth 
 
 Cersei : Joffrey had no love for  Robb Stark , but  the younger boy  was nothing to him. He was only a child himself.  
 Jaime : A child hungry for a pat on the head from  that sot  you let him believe was his father. [17] — Jaime Lannister  to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 Family 
 House Baratheon 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [73]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [73]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 House Lannister 
 
                                     Tytos   Jeyne Marbrand                                       
                                                                                                                                                                     
             Tywin   Joanna Lannister   Kevan   Dorna Swyft   Emmon Frey   Genna   Tygett   Darlessa Marbrand   Gerion   Briony                     
                                                                                                                                       
 Robert Baratheon   Cersei   Jaime   Tyrion   Sansa Stark             Issue           Tyrek   Ermesande Hayford   Joy Hill               
                                                                                                                                       
 Joffrey Baratheon   Myrcella Baratheon   Tommen  Baratheon   Amerei Frey   Lancel   Martyn   Willem   Janei       
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Joffrey Baratheon  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Joffrey Baratheon. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 5 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4   7.5   7.6     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 7 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 3 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 32 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3   11.4   11.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 80 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 32 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 52 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2   17.3   17.4   17.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 63 , Davos VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1   21.2   21.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 59 , Catelyn IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 25 , Eddard V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 6 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 9 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 18 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 16 , Eddard III. 
 
 ↑  32.0   32.1   32.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 44 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑  36.0   36.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 60 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑  38.0   38.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 65 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑  39.0   39.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 63 , Catelyn X. 
 
 ↑  41.0   41.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 67 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 10 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 26 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑  47.0   47.1   47.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  48.0   48.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 59 , Tyrion XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 60 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 62 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 25 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 36 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑  56.0   56.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  57.0   57.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 59 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑  58.0   58.1   58.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 61 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 22 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑  62.0   62.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  64.0   64.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  65.0   65.1   65.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 77 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑  66.0   66.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑  68.0   68.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 13 , The Soiled Knight. 
 
 ↑  69.0   69.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 21 , The Queenmaker. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  73.0   73.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Baratheon . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Baratheon. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Joffrey_Baratheon&oldid=219779 "  
 Categories :  Articles with unsourced statements House Baratheon House Lannister Bastards Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Crownlands Characters killed by Petyr Baelish Kings of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men Members of Robert Baratheon's court Monarchs Nobles Protectors of the Realm Hidden category:  Articles that Need Verification   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
