
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jon Arryn 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Jon Arryn  
 Copyrighted work by Fantasy Flight Games ©. 
 Title 
 Lord of the Eyrie Defender of the Vale Warden of the East Hand of the King Keeper of the Gates of the Moon [1] Ser Allegiance 
 House Arryn Culture 
 Valemen Born 
In or between  218 AC  and  220 AC  (roughly) [2] , at the  Eyrie [3] Died 
In  298 AC [2] , at  King's Landing Spouse 
1st: Lady  Jeyne Royce 2nd: Lady  Rowena Arryn 3rd: Lady  Lysa Tully Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 John Standing TV series 
 Season 1 
 Jon Arryn  was a head of  House Arryn  whose titles included  Lord of the Eyrie ,  Defender of the Vale , and  Warden of the East . He served as  Hand of the King  to  Robert I Baratheon  from  283 AC  until his unexpected death in  298 AC . [4] 
 Jon was the husband of Lady  Lysa Arryn  and father of Lord  Robert Arryn , and he acted as a second father to Lord  Eddard Stark  and King Robert. [5] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Youth 
 2.2   Robert's Rebellion 
 2.3   Hand of the King 
 2.4   Death 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 4   Family Tree 
 5   Quotes 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Jon Arryn 
 Jon had broad shoulders. [4]  Half of his teeth had fallen out by the time he married  Lysa Tully . [6]  As a younger man he resembled  Harrold Hardyng , who has blue eyes, blonde hair, and an aquiline nose. [7]  Lysa resented his poor breath. [8] 
 Jon had a reputation for being prudent, [9]  calming and wise, [10]  and kindly and trusting. [11]  He was cordial but not friendly toward Lord  Stannis Baratheon . [12] 
 While in  King's Landing , Lysa commissioned a double-edged longsword for Jon which he carried while sitting the  Iron Throne  in place of King  Robert I Baratheon . Jon's blade has wings on its crossguard, a falcon-head pommel, and is engraved in silver to resemble mountain sky. [13]  Jon preferred functional armor, rather than jeweled and silvered plate. [12] 
 
 History 
 Youth 
 Jon was born as the eldest son of Lord  Jasper Arryn . Not much is known about his youth or his parents. He had a younger brother,  Ronnel , and a sister,  Alys , who married Ser  Elys Waynwood . Jon was Keeper of the  Gates of the Moon  while his father lived, and after his father's death he named his brother Ronnel and later his cousin  Denys  to that position. [1]  Because of the  Vale mountain clans , Jon always traveled in strength when crossing the  Mountains of the Moon . [14] 
 Jon's first wife was  Jeyne Royce , but she died in childbed, their daughter stillborn. His second marriage was to  Rowena Arryn , a cousin, who died of a winter chill during a childless marriage. [15]  Because he had no children, Jon's heir became his nephew,  Elbert , the son of Ronnel. [16] 
 Jon fostered  Eddard Stark  and  Robert Baratheon  as his wards in the  Vale of Arryn . As they grew, the two boys became close companions and regarded the childless Jon as a second father. [5]  The only blade used by Robert was a hunting knife he received from Jon as a boy. [17]  Jon declined to foster the grandsons of Lord  Walder Frey . [18] 
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 Main article:  Robert's Rebellion 
 Jon's heir,  Elbert Arryn , was murdered by King  Aerys II Targaryen  in  King's Landing , [19]  and the Mad King then demanded that Jon execute his wards,  Eddard  and  Robert . Jon refused, however, and raised his banners in revolt, [5]  beginning what would become known as  Robert's Rebellion . [20] 
 While Ned Stark returned to the  north  to call his banners, Jon and Robert led the  taking of Gulltown , allowing Robert to return to the  stormlands . [21]  In order to gain Lord  Hoster Tully  for the rebels, Eddard and Jon agreed to marry Hoster's daughters,  Catelyn  and  Lysa . [22]  Ser  Denys Arryn , Jon's cousin and new heir, was slain by Lord  Jon Connington  during the  Battle of the Bells . [23]  Because Lysa was proven fertile, Jon hoped to secure a new heir for the failing Arryn line, and so Jon and Eddard married the Tully sisters at  Riverrun . [22] 
 Jon participated in the  Battle of the Trident , [20]  during which Robert killed Aerys's son, Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . During the  Sack of King's Landing , not only the Mad King but also Rhaegar's wife,  Elia Martell , and children, Princess  Rhaenys  and Prince  Aegon , were killed. Eddard was appalled by the brutality of the acts but Robert's hatred for the  Targaryens  made him consider the murders necessary, creating a temporary rift between the two that even Lord Arryn was unable to breach. [10]  When Robert Baratheon ascended to the  Iron Throne , he appointed Jon as his  Hand . [5] 
 
 Hand of the King 
   Jon as  Hand  for King  Robert I Baratheon . 
 The first task Jon undertook was making peace with  Dorne . The southern region was incensed by the deaths of Prince  Lewyn  and Princess  Elia  during the war, and Prince  Oberyn Martell  tried to raise the kingdom to support  Viserys Targaryen , the surviving son of King  Aerys II . The year after  Robert I Baratheon  took the throne ( 284 AC ), Jon returned the bones of Lewyn to  Sunspear  and brokered a peace with  Doran Martell , the  Prince of Dorne . [24]  However, Ser  Gregor Clegane  and Ser  Amory Lorch , who had killed Elia and her children, went unpunished by Robert, creating a persistent bone of contention between the  Iron Throne  and Dorne. [25] 
 To strengthen Robert's hold on the throne, Jon negotiated the king's marriage with  Cersei Lannister [11]  and advised that he retain her brother, Ser  Jaime , on the  Kingsguard , thereby opposing Lord  Eddard Stark , who proposed sending Jaime to the  Wall  for his killing of King Aerys. [26]  Robert also considered the assassinations of Viserys and  Daenerys , believed to be the last two  Targaryens  and thus possible threats, but Jon dissuaded the king from the idea. [10] 
 Robert left Jon with much of the responsibility of running the  Seven Kingdoms , but Jon could not stop Robert from spending huge amounts of money on tournaments and excess, putting the realm in serious debt. [9]  While he was at court,  Nestor Royce  ruled as  High Steward of the Vale . [27] 
 
   Jon and his son  Robert , art by  Juliana Pinho  ©. 
 Jon's marriage with Lysa was loveless, with Lysa finding Jon to be too old and hating his bad breath. After three girls and two boys miscarried, Lysa gave Jon a sickly son and heir,  Robert Arryn . [6]  Lysa organized for her childhood friend,  Petyr Baelish , to administer the customs at  Gulltown  and later convinced her husband to bring him to the court in  King's Landing . Petyr was made  master of coin  under Jon as Hand. [8]   Hugh  became Jon's squire. [11]  Jon brought Ser  Mandon Moore  to King's Landing and King Robert made him a member of his  Kingsguard , though neither of the two loved him very much. [28] 
 
 Death 
 Jon was considered robust for his age, but he became ill the night after he borrowed  Grand Maester   Malleon 's  book , and quickly wasted away. Jon's maester,  Colemon , tried treating an assumed stomach illness by purging the body. The moribund Jon kept mentioning the name Robert, and his final words to his wife  Lysa Arryn  and King  Robert I Baratheon  were "the seed is strong". [4] [29]  Lysa believes this to be a reference to their own son,  Robert Arryn , but it is more likely that Jon was referring to what he had learned about the  Baratheon  lineage while studying Malleon's book. [30] [29]  Afterwards, his speech became too slurred to comprehend and he died the following morning. [4] 
 After Jon's death, King Robert suggested to Lysa that her young son Robert should become a ward of Lord  Tywin Lannister  and be sent to  Casterly Rock , as he feared that being raised by his mother would make his namesake weak. Lysa refused the suggestion brusquely and, against the wishes of the king, one night fled from  King's Landing  with her son and returned to the  Vale of Arryn . [31] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Jon Arryn by TheMico ©. 
 King  Robert I Baratheon  decides that Lord  Eddard Stark  should succeed Jon as  Hand of the King , which angers both Queen  Cersei Lannister , who had hoped her brother Ser  Jaime  would assume the position and fears that Eddard would move to curb  Lannister  influence, and  Stannis Baratheon , who thinks he is owed the position through his fifteen years of service on the  small council . [32] [33]  Shortly after Robert and his entourage leave for  Winterfell  to ask Eddard to become his Hand, Stannis goes back to  Dragonstone . [9] 
 Lysa writes a coded letter to her sister  Catelyn Stark , in which she claims that Jon was murdered by Queen Cersei. This convinces Catelyn and eventually Eddard, who had been inclined to refuse King Robert's offer, that he must assume the position of Hand, so that he can find out the truth about Jon's death and expose those responsible. [34] [8] 
 However, when Eddard arrives at the  Red Keep , he realizes that Lysa's return to the  Eyrie  with most of the Arryn household and Stannis's departure to Dragonstone prevent him from questioning crucial witnesses about the circumstances and background of Jon's death. Left without other options, he begins to rely on information provided by Lord  Petyr Baelish  and  Varys . Petyr, known as Littlefinger, feeds Eddard largely useless information, while Varys suggests Jon might have been poisoned by his squire, the now-knighted Ser  Hugh of the Vale , who is killed in the  Hand's tourney . [4] [12] [11] 
 Eddard learns that Stannis began to suspect Queen Cersei's children had been fathered not by King Robert but by her brother Ser Jaime, the  Kingslayer , which would make them illegitimate and Stannis therefore Robert's rightful heir. Concerned that such a suggestion coming from him would be seen as motivated by his own ambitions, Stannis did not confide in the king but rather raised the issue with Jon Arryn, whom Robert would be more inclined to believe. [35] 
 Jon and Stannis began to investigate the matter secretly by seeking out  bastards  Robert had begotten. Together they visited the armory of  Tobho Mott  where  Gendry  was employed, one of Robert's offspring who bore a striking resemblance to his father. They also visited  Chataya's brothel , where Robert had fathered a girl,  Barra , who also clearly had the king's features. [12] [11]  The increased contact with Stannis apparently also contributed to Jon's planning to send his son  Robert Arryn  to be fostered by Stannis at Dragonstone. [13] 
 Jon was seeking further proof that Cersei's children could not be Robert's in  Grand Maester   Malleon 's book  The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms , a ponderous tome lent to him by Grand Maester  Pycelle . The book would have informed him, as it later informs Lord Eddard Stark, that whenever members of houses  Lannister  and  Baratheon  wed, their offspring always bore clear Baratheon features (unlike Cersei's children  Joffrey ,  Myrcella , and  Tommen , who more closely resemble the Lannisters). [4] [30]  Jon's investigation became known to a number of people at the court, including Pycelle, Varys, Cersei, and Littlefinger. Varys saw Jon's life in danger and begged him to employ a taster, but Jon dismissed the suggestion that anyone would try to poison him. [11] 
 Meanwhile, Eddard's wife Catelyn takes  Tyrion Lannister  captive at the  crossroads inn  for his assumed role in plotting her son  Bran's  death. [14]  Catelyn brings Tyrion to the Eyrie, where her sister Lysa accuses him of having poisoned Lord Jon. Ser  Vardis Egen  wields Jon's falcon sword during Tyrion's  trial by combat , but he is slain by Tyrion's representative,  Bronn , and Tyrion is set free. [13] 
 By the time Eddard finds out what Jon had been investigating and what had provided the likely cause for his death, it is too late to inform King Robert, as the king goes hunting in the  kingswood  and fighting breaks out in the  riverlands  in response to Tyrion's abduction by Catelyn. [36] [37] [30] 
 Stannis remains at Dragonstone, which keeps him from sharing his suspicions about Cersei's children with Lord Eddard and from directly challenging the legitimacy of Joffrey when he assumes the throne after King Robert dies from being gored in the kingswood. [38]  Eddard, betrayed by Littlefinger, [39]  is later executed by order of the new king. [40] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Tyrion Lannister  forces  Grand Maester   Pycelle , a staunch supporter of Lannister interests, to confess he believed that Queen  Cersei Lannister  wanted Jon dead. Cersei considered Jon a threat to her plan of putting her son  Joffrey  on the  Iron Throne  after her husband, King  Robert I Baratheon , had been disposed of. [41]  Pycelle believed that Jon was about to act on his knowledge by making preparations to send his wife,  Lysa Arryn , to the  Eyrie  and his son,  Robert Arryn , to  Dragonstone . [29]  Although Cersei had not given him explicit orders in this regard and was not even in  King's Landing  at the time, Pycelle assumed responsibility for the treatment and thereby assured that Jon died, despite the efforts by Maester  Colemon  - who Pycelle sent away - to save him. [29] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Sansa Stark  learns that unbeknownst to Jon,  Lysa Arryn  and  Petyr Baelish  had maintained a relationship since their youth. She had convinced Jon to bring Petyr to court in  King's Landing  so that they could be close together. [8]  Littlefinger had persuaded Lysa to poison Jon's wine with  tears of Lys , suggesting to her that this would both remove the obstacle to their marriage and prevent Jon from sending  Robert Arryn  to  Stannis Baratheon  at  Dragonstone . Lysa did as she was bidden. [8]  Petyr also encouraged the widowed Lysa to write the letter to her sister  Catelyn Stark  claiming the  Lannisters  were behind Jon's death, which contributed to the outbreak of the  War of the Five Kings . Littlefinger's motivations are not clear, but he evidently saw the chance of exploiting the death of Jon to increase the animosity between the Lannisters and the  Starks  for his own ends. [8]  It is also possible that he saw Queen  Cersei  and her tendency to act hastily and irrationally as crucial to his own strategy in the "game of thrones" and wanted to prevent her untimely removal from the game. [42] 
 
 Family Tree 
 
                                 Jasper   Unknown       
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                             
 Rowena Arryn   Jeyne Royce   Jon   Lysa Tully       Alys   Elys Waynwood       Ronnel   Lady Belmore                   
                                                                                                                 
             stillborn daughter   Robert   daughter   Denys Arryn   daughter   six other daughters and a son   Elbert         
                                                         
                                 son       Harrold Hardyng   
 
 
 
 Quotes 
 I need good men about me. Men like Jon Arryn. [31] 
  –  Robert I Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Jon Arryn was a wise man and a good  Hand . [10] 
  –  Eddard Stark  to  Robert I Baratheon 
 
 
 I loved that old man, I swear it, but now I think he was a bigger fool than  Moon Boy . [11] 
  –  Robert I Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 The seed is strong, Jon Arryn had cried on his deathbed, and so it was. [30] 
  – thoughts of  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Lysa's  match with Lord Arryn had been hastily arranged, and Jon was an old man even then, older than  their father . An old man without an heir. His first two wives had left him childless,  his brother's son  had been murdered with  Brandon Stark  in  King's Landing ,  his gallant cousin  had died in the  Battle of the Bells . He needed a young wife if  House Arryn  was to continue ... a young wife known to be fertile. [22] 
  – thoughts of  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 The death of the noble  Hand , Jon Arryn, has unleashed a  madness on the land , a madness of pride and violence. [43] 
  – writings of  Yandel 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   See the  Jon Arryn  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Jon Arryn. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 25 , Eddard V. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 2 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Alayne I 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4   8.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 80 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 20 , Eddard IV. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3   11.4   11.5   11.6     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2   12.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 40 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 28 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Vale: House Arryn. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 9 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1   22.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 2 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 29 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 36 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 12 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  29.0   29.1   29.2   29.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1   30.2   30.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑  31.0   31.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 6 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 65 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , Afterward. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jon_Arryn&oldid=207275 "  
 Categories :  House Arryn Characters from the Vale Characters killed by Petyr Baelish Hands of the King Keepers of the Gates of the Moon Lords of the Eyrie Members of Robert Baratheon's court Nobles Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Wardens   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
