
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Jorah Mormont 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Jorah Mormont  
 
 Alias 
The exile knight [1] Jorah the Andal [2] Ser Bezoar [3] Title 
 Ser Lord of Bear Island  (stripped) Allegiance 
 House Mormont House Targaryen Second Sons Culture 
 Northmen Born 
In  254 AC  (roughly) [4] Spouse 
1st: unknown  Glover 2nd:  Lynesse Hightower Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) The Winds of Winter  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Iain Glen TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Ser  Jorah Mormont  is an exiled  knight , the former head of  House Mormont  and Lord of  Bear Island . He fled  Westeros  to escape execution for  trading in slaves  and took up work as a  mercenary  in the  Free Cities , eventually entering the service of the last  Targaryens . He becomes one of the most trusted companions of  Daenerys Targaryen . Jorah is portrayed in the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  by  Iain Glen .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Youth 
 2.2   Greyjoy's Rebellion 
 2.3   Marriage to Lynesse 
 2.4   Exile 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Jorah 
 5   Quotes about Jorah 
 6   Family 
 7   Notes 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Jorah Mormont 
 Jorah is a large middle-aged man, swarthy and hairy. He is black bearded and balding, but still strong and fit. [5] [6]  Jorah is shorter but more muscular than Ser  Barristan Selmy . [5]   Daenerys Targaryen  considers him not particularly handsome. [1]  Jorah is respected by the  Dothraki  for his swordsmanship. [7] 
 Jorah wears wool and leather, with his dark green tunic displaying the standing black bear of  House Mormont . [8]  He also owns horsehair leggings and a painted vest in the Dothraki style. [2]  Jorah armors himself in mail as well as gauntlets, greaves, and a flat-topped greathelm of dark grey steel. [9] [10]  He wields a longsword [9]  and a dagger. [10] 
 
 History 
 Youth 
 Jorah was married at a young age to a girl from  House Glover  as desired by his father  Jeor Mormont , Lord of  Bear Island . While they were married for ten years, Jorah's wife was unable to carry a child to term. She eventually died following her third miscarriage. [11]  Presumably prior to  Robert's Rebellion , [N 1]  Jeor gave up the lordship of  House Mormont  by joining the  Night's Watch , which made Jorah the Lord of Bear Island in his own right. [11] 
 During  Robert's Rebellion , Jorah fought on the side of the rebels. He was present during the  Battle of the Trident  in  283 AC [12]  and saw the aftermath of the  Sack of King's Landing . [13] 
 
 Greyjoy's Rebellion 
 After the death of his first wife, Jorah received multiple marriage offers from other houses. Before he made his decision, however,  Balon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands , rose in rebellion in  289 AC . [11]  Jorah showed courage during  Greyjoy's Rebellion , being one of the first men through the breach during the  siege of Pyke . He received  knighthood  from King  Robert I Baratheon  in recognition of his bravery. [14] [11]  According to Magister  Illyrio Mopatis , Jorah was anointed by the  High Septon  when he became a knight, [8]  though it is unknown which  religion  Jorah follows, nor whether the High Septon was present on  Pyke .
 
 Marriage to Lynesse 
 During a  tourney at Lannisport  to celebrate the victory over the  Greyjoy  rebels, Jorah met  Lynesse Hightower , who was half his age, and became smitten with her beauty. He asked for her favor to wear during the tournament, for which she gave her permission. Jorah unexpectedly defeated all challengers. He faced Ser  Jaime Lannister  last, and after they broke nine lances to no result, King  Robert I Baratheon  granted Jorah the victory. Jorah named Lynesse his  queen of love and beauty , and asked Lynesse's father, Lord  Leyton Hightower , for her hand in marriage that same night. Surprisingly, Leyton agreed. Jorah and Lynesse were married at  Lannisport , after which they returned to  Bear Island . [11] 
 The marriage did not remain happy for long. Having spent her life as part of wealthy  House Hightower  in  Oldtown , Lynesse was unprepared for life on harsh and isolated Bear Island and quickly grew miserable. Jorah attempted to reproduce the lifestyle to which his wife was accustomed, but only succeeded in driving himself into financial ruin. [11]  by lavishing her with expensive gifts, hiring a cook from Oldtown, and a harper from Lannisport. Having built a fine ship, Jorah attended festivals with his wife in those two cities as well, and he borrowed from moneylenders while in  Braavos . Jorah participated in various tourneys, but he never duplicated his success at Lannisport. [11] 
 
 Exile 
   Jorah, by Jacques Bredy © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Desperate to pay off his debts, Jorah participated in one of the  Seven Kingdoms ' oldest taboos,  slavery . When  House Mormont 's liege,  Eddard Stark , learned that Jorah had sold poachers to a  Tyroshi  slaver, he condemned him to death. However, when the  Warden of the North  arrived on Bear Island to execute him in  293 AC , Jorah had already fled with Lynesse. [15] [11]  To his credit, Jorah left behind  Longclaw , the ancestral  Valyrian steel  sword of the Mormonts. [16]  Jorah's aunt, Lady  Maege Mormont , sent the blade to Jeor at  Castle Black . [17] 
 Rather than join his father in taking the black, Jorah took Lynesse with him into exile. While Jorah wanted to go to  Braavos , Lynesse wanted a warmer home, [18]  so they fled to  Lys  instead, where Jorah sold his ship. Within half a year they had no money left, so Jorah sold his service as a  sellsword . However, while Jorah was fighting the  Braavosi  on the  Rhoyne , Lynesse took  Tregar Ormollen  as her lover, and moved into the merchant prince's manse. When Jorah returned to Lys, Tregar informed him that he would be enslaved for his debts, unless he gave up Lynesse and left Lys. [11] 
 Heartbroken, Jorah went to  Volantis , where he spent the better part of a year. [18]  He remained near the  Free Cities [11]  travelling as far east as  Vaes Dothrak , [19]  and, having spend time with the  Dothraki , eventually came to speak  their language  and learn their customs. [19] [7]  He has not traveled to the  red waste , however. [11]  Jorah is familiar with  Ben Plumm  and the  Second Sons , [20]  and at some point Jorah became a spy for Lord  Varys , Robert's  master of whisperers . [15] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Iain Glen as Jorah in  Game of Thrones 
 Jorah is present at the feast held in  Drogo's manse  in  Pentos , where Princess  Daenerys Targaryen  is presented to the  Dothraki   khal . [8]  Jorah enters the service of the Beggar King,  Viserys Targaryen , and he becomes a constant companion to the two Targaryens. During the wedding of Daenerys to  Drogo , Jorah gifts her a small stack of old histories and songs of the  Seven Kingdoms  written in the  Common Tongue . [19]  When the  khalasar  leaves Pentos the next day, both he and Viserys accompany them. [1]  Despite having sworn his sword to Viserys, Jorah's regard for Viserys is low. During the  khalasar' s march to  Vaes Dothrak , he displays more loyalty towards Daenerys. [1] 
 Jorah is secretly in the employment of  Varys , the  master of whisperers  for King  Robert I Baratheon . Hoping to earn a royal pardon and return to  Westeros  from his exile, Jorah reports on the Targaryens' movements to  King's Landing . He is quick to inform Robert about Daenerys's marriage to Drogo. [15]  When Daenerys becomes pregnant, Jorah informs Varys as well, resulting in Robert's decision to have Daenerys, her child, and Viserys assassinated. [21] 
 Jorah counsels Daenerys on the Dothraki way of thinking and living. [22]  At Vaes Dothrak, he threatens Viserys when the latter attempts to steal  dragon eggs , Magister  Illyrio Mopatis 's gifts to Daenerys. Jorah is given a place of respect at the feast after Daenerys eats the  stallion heart . Jorah is unable to calm Viserys when the would-be king enters the hall drunk, and the knight watches as Drogo has Viserys killed with molten gold. [7] 
 Jorah accompanies Daenerys and her escort to the western market, where he insists on visiting a caravan captain alone. Illyrio has sent a letter warning that King Robert has promised a  lordship  to whomever slays Viserys, Daenerys, or her child. Jorah returns to Daenerys's side just in time to confront a merchant about attempting to sell her poisoned  wine . [2]  For his role in saving Daenerys and her unborn son, Drogo allows Jorah to choose any horse from his herds, with the exception of  his own stallion , and  Daenerys's silver . After Jorah warns Drogo that there will be more attempts, Drogo declares he will invade the Seven Kingdoms. [2] 
 Jorah remains with the  khalasar  as they travel south towards  Lhazar . He participates in battle when Drogo falls upon the  khalasar  of Khal  Ogo , who had just sacked a town of the  Lhazareen . Daenerys orders Jorah to stop Drogo's men from raping the Lhazareen women, and although Jorah admires Daenerys’s intent, he tries to explain that she cannot save all the women. [9] 
 Drogo is wounded in the battle, and although  Mirri Maz Duur  has seen to his wound, the  khal  ignores the  maegi ' s instructions, and his wound begins to fester. [9] [10]  When Drogo falls off his horse, Jorah urges Daenerys to flee to  Asshai  before Drogo dies, as her child will otherwise be killed and she will be forced to join the  dosh khaleen  at Vaes Dothrak. [10]  Daenerys has Mirri perform  blood magic  on Drogo, which causes chaos in the  khalasar . Jorah duels  Qotho  when Drogo's  bloodrider  wishes to stop the ritual. Although Qotho's  arakh  cuts off half Jorah's ear and wounds his hip, the knight is able to kill his opponent. When Daenerys goes into labor and the midwives refuse to come, Jorah takes her into the tent, unaware that Mirri has forbidden anyone from entering. [10] 
 
   Jorah pledges to  Daenerys Targaryen  - by Amok © 
 Daenerys's child,  Rhaego , is a stillborn monstrosity. When Daenerys wakes up from her fevered sleep, a weakened Jorah is unable to tell her the truth about the child, so Mirri tells her. Daenerys and Jorah believe that by carrying her into the tent during the ritual, Jorah inadvertently caused her son's death. Jorah escorts Daenerys to Drogo, revealing that his  khalasar  is gone and Drogo is now catatonic. [23]  Daenerys euthanizes her husband. [23] 
 Preparations are made for Drogo's funeral pyre, but Jorah fears that Daenerys plans to commit suicide by entering the pyre. He begs her to come with him to  Yi Ti ,  Qarth , the  Jade Sea , and  Asshai . Daenerys promises she does not intend to die with Drogo, and when she later asks the men from her  khas  and Jorah to swear their service to her, Jorah is the only one to do so. Daenerys promises him a dragon-forged  Valyrian steel  longsword and names him the first of her  Queensguard . Jorah suggests selling the dragon eggs, but Daenerys has them placed upon Drogo's pyre. She has Jorah and  Rakharo  bind Mirri to the pyre. Jorah shouts at Daenerys when she walks into the burning pyre, which kills Mirri. When the flames have gone and the ground has cooled off the next morning, Daenerys is amidst the ashes, unhurt, with three living  dragons . Jorah wordlessly falls to his knees, while the remaining Dothraki swear Daenerys their loyalty. [24] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Jorah gifts Daenerys with a peach at  Vaes Tolorro  - by Dorota Pijewska © 
 Jorah's hip has not yet fully healed. When they arrive at  Vaes Tolorro , he counsels Daenerys to remain in the city for a while, until her  khalasar  has recovered its strength. Jorah tells Daenerys about his marriages to a  Glover , who died, and  Lynesse Hightower , who abandoned him. When Jorah mentions that she resembles Lynesse, Daenerys realizes that Jorah is in love with her. [11]  Daenerys tends to Jorah's wound, and it begins to heal. [11] 
 Jorah accompanies the  khalasar  to  Qarth . He is mistrustful of the Qartheen, especially the merchant prince  Xaro Xhoan Daxos , the warlock  Pyat Pree , and the shadowbinder  Quaithe , and he counsels Daenerys to not linger in the city for long. Daenerys sends Jorah to the  port of Qarth  to learn about tidings from the  Seven Kingdoms . He returns with  Quhuru Mo , captain of the  Cinnamon Wind , who tells them that King  Robert I Baratheon  is dead,  Joffrey I Baratheon  has ascended the  Iron Throne , and it is rumored that Robert's brothers,  Stannis  and  Renly , are going to claim the  Iron Throne . A skeptical Jorah disagrees with Daenerys openly declaring her intent to take the throne herself, as she lacks an army, gold, and ships. [25] 
 Unlike Xaro, Jorah is intrigued when Daenerys dresses in the Qartheen fashion, baring a breast. [26]  Although Jorah warns Daenerys that she will not receive any help from the  Pureborn  of Qarth, she visits them anyway, taking  Rhaegal  with her. Jorah remains behind at Xaro's palace to guard the other two dragons,  Drogon  and  Viserion . Upon her return, Jorah guesses that Xaro hopes to obtain a dragon by marrying Daenerys. Advising her to travel  further east  for safety, but not to  Asshai  as suggested by Quaithe, Jorah explains that  Illyrio Mopatis  lacks the the power to seat her upon the Iron Throne. He also explains Daenerys must gain the support of some of the  high lords  of Westeros, but admits he does not know how to accomplish that. [26] 
 Daenerys sends Jorah to Pyat Pree to arrange a meeting with the  Undying Ones . [26]  Skeptical of the  House of the Undying , Jorah urges Daenerys to take him with her but Pyat insists she enter alone. Jorah warns Daenerys to remember  Mirri Maz Duur  before she enters, and remains outside of the House of the Undying until Daenerys emerges again. He kneels besides Daenerys while her  bloodriders  keep the warlock from attacking her. [27] 
 Jorah accompanies Daenerys to the docks of Qarth, seeking a ship to take them from Qarth following the destruction of the House of the Undying. Daenerys discusses her visions from the building and the claims of the Undying Ones. Two men,  Strong Belwas  and his squire,  Arstan Whitebeard , save Daenerys from a  Sorrowful Man . They claim to have been sent by Illyrio to bring Daenerys back to  Pentos . When Jorah remarks that Arstan is rather old to be a squire, Arstan admits to knowing Jorah, having seen him fight at  Pyke  and participate in the subsequent  tourney at Lannisport . Although Jorah admits Arstan looks familiar, he does not recall having met him. [28] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Jorah, by Britt Martin © Green Ronin Publishing 
 While  Balerion  takes them to  Pentos , Jorah reacts with hostility when Arstan provides Daenerys with more accurate information about the  dragons  once held by  House Targaryen  and Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen 's fighting abilities. Jorah is also bothered by Arstan insinuating knowledge of  Lynesse Hightower  and the  tourney at Lannisport . [5] 
 That night, Jorah visits Daenerys in her chamber, where he again speaks of his distrust for Arstan, Belwas, and  Illyrio Mopatis , claiming that Arstan does not act like a squire. Suggesting that Daenerys go to Pentos with an army, Jorah proposes they sail for  Astapor  in  Slaver's Bay , where  Unsullied  are trained and sold, telling her the story about the  Three Thousand of Qohor . Excited by the idea of acquiring the beginnings of her own army, Daenerys agrees on the approach. However, Jorah kisses her and offers himself in marriage. [5]  An uncomfortable Daenerys ensures she is no longer alone with the knight, [13]  and she does not dream of him. [13] 
 When she visits the  Plaza of Pride  to view the Unsullied of Astapor, Daenerys leaves Jorah on  Balerion , taking Arstan with her instead. Arstan is against Jorah's plan to have Daenerys buy the eunuch soldiers, and he reminds her that Jorah had been a slaver himself. When she returns to the ship, Jorah informs Daenerys that three slavers inspected her ships' trading goods. When Jorah supports purchasing the Unsullied, an angry Daenerys slaps him. When Daenerys later tells him that she refuses to shed the blood of innocents, Jorah tells her about  Aegon's Conquest  and the  Sack of King's Landing , where many women were raped. He states that the Unsullied do not rape, sack, or plunder. Regardless, Daenerys wishes to lead free men into battle who believe in her cause. [13] 
 Jorah accompanies Daenerys to the Plaza of Pride, where she strikes a deal with the  Good Masters . Later, Daenerys confides in Jorah and her  bloodriders . The next day, Jorah goes with Daenerys and her people to buy the Unsullied. [29]  She frees the eunuchs during the  fall of Astapor , asking them to join her by their own choice, and ordering those who do so to chose officers from among themselves.  Grey Worm , who is chosen for the highest rank, is trained by Jorah, who finds him promising. [6]  Jorah urges Daenerys to abandon the freedmen who have followed her from Astapor, but Daenerys finds herself unable to do so. [6] 
 At  Yunkai , Jorah states his belief that the army of the Yellow City can easily be defeated by Daenerys's forces. He is present for each of the three meetings with the captains of the  free companies  and the  Wise Masters , and for once agrees with Arstan when the latter argues  Mero , the captain of the  Second Sons , is not to be trusted. When Daenerys tells her council of her plans, Jorah approves. He later brings  Daario Naharis  of the  Stormcrows , who was caught sneaking into the camp, to Daenerys, and counsels against using the Stormcrows in battle against Yunkai after Daario declares the loyalty of the company. Jorah leaves hurt when his queen insists she does not desire him. [6]  Jorah leads Daenerys's Unsullied in the  battle near Yunkai , and later brings her word of their victory. He sends men to hunt Mero, who has escaped captivity. [6] 
 Jorah follows Daenerys to  Meereen , unhappy with the large number of freed slaves that follow Daenerys, calling them "mouths with feet". He does not believe they have to fight the "hero of Meereen", and calls the victory "hollow". He advises Daenerys to leave Meereen be, as they see no way to enter the city or starve the city out, and march for Pentos instead. He admits that in that scenario, Daenerys will be unable to feed the freed slaves who have decided to follow her, and Daenerys refuses to let that happen. [12] 
 
   Jorah, by Darek Zabrocki © Fantasy Flight Games 
 When Arstan Whitebeard saves Daenerys from Mero, Daenerys angrily accuses Jorah of not informing her of Mero's escape. Upon learning that Arstan, an old man with a wooden staff, managed to kill Mero, Jorah becomes suspicious once again. Arstan reveals he is actually Ser  Barristan Selmy , formerly  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard  for  Robert I Baratheon , and he tells Daenerys that someone has been informing on her since the day she married  Drogo . Jorah admits that he had spied on her and  Viserys , but had stopped when he fell in love with her. Angrily, Daenerys sends them with Belwas and twenty men into the sewers of Meereen to take the city for her. [12]  Jorah kills a great pale lizard during the mission. [30] 
 Although Daenerys half hopes that Jorah and Arstan will die, they are successful in freeing Meereen's slaves, granting her victory in the  siege of Meereen . The thought of Jorah makes Daenerys feel angry, agitated, and sick, but she summons him and Arstan nonetheless. Although shamed, Jorah refuses to beg for forgiveness and instead insists Daenerys forgive him on account of his loyal service and love to her. Although Daenerys had planned to forgive him, she finds herself unable to, realizing it had been Jorah who had informed King Robert of her pregnancy. Instead, she banishes Jorah from Meereen, swearing to kill him if she ever sees him again. [30] 
 When he lies dying during the  mutiny at Craster's Keep ,  Jeor Mormont ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , asks  Samwell Tarly  to tell his son that his dying wish is for Jorah to  takes the black . [31] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Jorah, marked with a demon's masked after being enslaved By Mike Hallstein 
 Recalling the prophecies of the  Undying Ones ,  Daenerys Targaryen , Queen of  Meereen , thinks of Jorah as one of her three betrayers. [32] 
 At a brothel in  Selhorys , Jorah hires a beautiful whore with silver hair. He recognizes  Tyrion Lannister  when the dwarf comes down the stairs of the brothel cartwheeling, and takes him prisoner, planning to deliver him to Daenerys. [33] 
 Jorah travels with his captive on horseback to  Volantis , where they overhear the  red priest   Benerro  preach that Daenerys will come and free them. Jorah sells his horse and saddle, and buys manacles for his captive, to make him seem like a slave. He rents a room in the  Merchant's House , where he chains Tyrion to the wall. Although Jorah had not given Tyrion his name, the dwarf figures it out for himself, and reveals  Varys  had sent him on his journey from  Pentos . Jorah, admitting he accepted gold from Varys once, insists his loyalties lie elsewhere now. Jorah takes Tyrion with him when he visits the  widow of the waterfront  in search for a passage to Meereen, but the widow declares she does not trust Jorah, and tells him to go elsewhere. When he is about to leave, Tyrion is attacked by  Penny , a female dwarf who blames him for the death of her brother,  Oppo . Jorah intervenes, disarming Penny, but this earns him more scorn from the widow, as  knights  are supposed to defend the weak. However, Penny's attack changes the widow's mind on giving aid. She tells Tyrion to be on the  Selaesori Qhoran  when it sets sail for  Qarth . While Tyrion respectfully expresses gratitude, Jorah expresses doubt, but the widow insists Benerro has foreseen that the ship will never reach its intended destination. [18] 
 
   Tyrion Lannister  and Jorah - by Jamga © 
 Jorah and Tyrion share a small cabin on the  Selaesori Qhoran . Because Tyrion insists they cannot leave Penny in Volantis, they bring her with them on the ship. However, Jorah makes it clear to Tyrion that Penny is Tyrion's responsibility. During the first storm, a drunken Jorah ends up in a pool of his own vomit. [34]  After the ship is stranded due to a lack of wind for twelve days, Jorah warns Tyrion to tell Penny to keep the door of her cabin locked, as he suspects that some crew members might soon attempt to steal  her pig  to eat. Jorah mocks Tyrion for mock jousting with Penny for entertainment, but grows angry when Tyrion guesses that Jorah was sent away by Daenerys. Jorah punches Tyrion and tells him to find another place to sleep.
 The ship encounters another, fiercer storm, during which several crew members are lost or mortally wounded. Jorah claims to Tyrion that he slept through it, which Tyrion doubts. Following the storm, they are stranded once more for nineteen days, until a distant ship appears which Jorah identifies as a slaver. [3]  Jorah kills three slavers with his sword, but is eventually overwhelmed. [35]  He is chained to an oar, beaten, whipped, starved, and branded with a demon's mask on his right cheek to mark him as a dangerous and disobedient slave. [35] [36]  Jorah remains defiant of his captors until he learns of Daenerys's marriage to  Hizdahr zo Loraq , then all the fight goes out of him. [35] 
 The slaver takes the captives taken on the  Selaesori Qhoran  to the slave market the  Yunkai'i  have created during the  second siege of Meereen . Jorah is placed on the auction block after Tyrion and Penny have been sold to  Yezzan zo Qaggaz . Not knowing why, Tyrion lies and convinces his overseer,  Nurse , that Jorah is part of their act, playing the bear who attacks Penny, " the maiden fair ", while Tyrion is the knight who saves her. Jorah is bought by Yezzan as well, [35]  but he does not adapt well in Yezzan's ownership either. [20]  He is sullen and uncooperative in the mummery acts with Tyrion and Penny, and mostly ignores any commands given by Nurse or replies with curses. As a result, Jorah is confined in a cage and frequently beaten. [20] 
 When Yezzan is stricken with the  pale mare , Jorah, Tyrion, and Penny are send to fetch water for their master. However, Tyrion leads them into the camp of the  Second Sons  to  Ben Plumm , the company's captain. As Jorah's face has become unrecognizable, Plumm and his serjeants recognize him by his voice. [20]  Although they are surprised that Jorah has returned to Meereen despite his exile, [20]  they allow him to sign a contract with the company, removing his chains. [36] 
 Having fled from  Daznak's Pit  atop  Drogon , [37]  a hallucinating Daenerys has a vision of Jorah while in the  Dothraki sea . The shadow Jorah reminds her she is the  blood of the dragon . [38] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Jorah and Tyrion agree that the Second Sons need to go over to  Meereen 's side, before  Daenerys Targaryen  returns to the city. When  Ben Plumm  summons his captains, Jorah is called to his tent as well. A Yunkish messenger, sent by  Morghaz zo Zherzyn , commands the  Second Sons  to attack Daenerys's  Unsullied , but Ser  Barristan Selmy  leads an attack from the city against the Yunkai'i. When the messenger recognizes Tyrion and demands him to be handed over for punishment, Jorah kills him. [39] 
 
 Quotes by Jorah 
 The  common people  pray for rain, healthy children, and a summer that never ends. It is no matter to them if the high lords play their game of thrones, so long as they are left in peace. They never are. [1] 
  – Jorah to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Horselord. Try me. [10] 
  – Jorah to  Qotho 
 
 
 Daenerys :  Viserys  is dead. I am his heir, the last blood of  House Targaryen . Whatever was his is mine now. 
 Jorah : My ... queen. My sword that was his is yours, Daenerys. And my heart as well, that never belonged to your brother. [16] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  and Jorah
 
 
 Jorah : I vow to serve you, to obey you, to die for you if need be. 
 Daenerys : Whatever may come? 
 Jorah : Whatever may come. 
 
 Daenerys : I shall hold you to that oath. I pray you never regret the giving of it. [16] 
  – Jorah and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Jorah : There are ghosts everywhere. We carry them with us wherever we go. 
 Daenerys : Tell me the name of your ghost, Jorah. You know all of mine. 
 
 Jorah : Her name was  Lynesse . [11] 
  – Jorah and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 I did things it shames me to speak of. For  gold . So  Lynesse  might keep her jewels, her harper, and her cook. In the end it cost me all. [11] 
  – Jorah to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Jorah : I should not have waited so long. I should have kissed you in  Qarth , in  Vaes Tolorro . I should have kissed you in the  red waste , every night and every day. You were made to be kissed, often and well. 
 Daenerys : I ... that was not fitting. I am your queen. [5] 
  – Jorah and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 There is a savage beast in every man, and when you hand that man a sword or spear and send him forth to war, the beast stirs. The scent of blood is all it takes to wake him. [13] 
  – Jorah to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 widow : Why would you seek  Daenerys Targaryen , whom half the world wants dead? 
 Jorah : To serve her. Defend her. Die for her, if need be. 
 
 widow : You want to rescue her, is that the way of it? From more enemies than I can name, with swords beyond count … this is what you'd have the poor widow believe? That you are a  true and chivalrous  Westerosi knight crossing half the world to come to the aid of this ... well, she is no maiden, though she may still be fair. [18] 
  – the  widow of the waterfront  and Jorah
 Quotes about Jorah 
 His crime had dishonored the  north . [15] 
  –  Eddard Stark 's thoughts
 
 
 So the slaver has become a spy. I would rather he become a corpse. [15] 
  –  Eddard Stark  to  Robert I Baratheon 
 
 
 Sometimes he thinks of me as a child he must protect, and sometimes as a woman he would like to bed, but does he ever truly see me as his queen? [25] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen 's thoughts
 
 
 You have been a better friend to me than any I have known, a better brother than  Viserys  ever was. You are the first of my  Queensguard , the commander of my army, my most valued counselor, my good right hand. I honor and respect and cherish you—but I do not desire you, Jorah Mormont, and I am weary of your trying to push every other man in the world away from me, so I must needs rely on you and you alone. It will not serve, and it will not make me love you any better. [6] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  to Jorah
 
 
 He lied to me, informed on me, but he loved me too, and he always gave good counsel. [40] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen 's thoughts
 
 
 One whispered word had done what fists and clubs could not; it had broken him. I should have let  the crone  have him. He's going to be about as useful as nipples on a breastplate. [35] 
  –  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts after Jorah receives the news of  Daenerys Targaryen 's marriage to  Hizdahr zo Loraq 
 
 
 He looks every inch a  sellsword  and not at all like the half-broken thing we took from  Yezzan's  cage. [36] 
  –  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts after Jorah joins the  Second Sons 
 Family 
 
                                                                 
     Unknown   Jeor               Maege   Unknown         
                                                                                                                                 
 Unknown  Glover   Jorah   Lynesse Hightower   Dacey   Alysane   Unknown   Lyra   Jorelle   Lyanna         
                                                               
                                 Daughter [41]   Son [41]   
 
 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   Jeor states that he has been in the Night's Watch longer than  Alliser Thorne , who joined the Night's Watch at the conclusion of  Robert's Rebellion  ( A Game of Thrones ,  Tyrion III ), implying that Jeor had joined prior to the war's start. While Jeor states that he had been Lord Commander at the time Alliser joined, more recent sources, both canon ( A Storm of Swords ,  Jon I  &  Jon VIII ) and semi-canon ( George R.R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire ) contradict this statement, making at least the fact that he was Lord Commander at the time invalid. It is still likely, however, that Jeor had already joined the Night's Watch at the time. 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 54 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 40 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑   See the  Jorah Mormont  calculation. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 46 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 61 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 64 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑  11.00   11.01   11.02   11.03   11.04   11.05   11.06   11.07   11.08   11.09   11.10   11.11   11.12   11.13   11.14     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2   13.3   13.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Jorah Mormont. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 70 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 60 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2   18.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 27 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2   20.3   20.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 57 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 68 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 72 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1   26.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 40 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 33 , Samwell II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 22 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 33 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  35.0   35.1   35.2   35.3   35.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 47 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  36.0   36.1   36.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion XII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 50 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑     The Winds of Winter ,  Chapter  ,  Tyrion II . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  41.0   41.1   It is currently unknown whether Alysane's children are trueborn, or bastardborn. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Jorah_Mormont&oldid=218737 "  
 Categories :  House Mormont Characters from the North Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Exiles Knights Mercenaries Nobles Outlaws Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Second Sons Slavers Slaves and freedmen Slaves of the House of Qaggaz Spies Sworn swords Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
