
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Leathers 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Leathers    Title 
master-at-arms Allegiance 
 Mance Rayder Night's Watch Culture 
 free folk Born 
In  259 AC  or before [1] Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Leathers  is a member of the  free folk  of the  haunted forest  who joins the  Night's Watch . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Leathers 
 4   Quotes about Leathers 
 5   References 
 
 
 History 
 Well past forty, Leathers has sons and grandsons. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Leathers is part of  Mance Rayder 's host, [3]  but they are defeated in the  battle beneath the Wall . He is one of the sixty-three  free folk  that  Jon Snow  takes to  Castle Black  from  Mole's Town . He and  Jax  are the first of them to join the  Night's Watch . They swear their vows with four other recruits ( Horse ,  Satin ,  Arron , and  Emrick ) at the grove of  weirwoods  north of  Castle Black , inside the  haunted forest . They are escorted by Jon and ten rangers. [2] 
 Scouting ahead,  Tom Barleycorn  finds nine wildlings in the  weirwood  grove, including the  giant   Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun . Leathers helps Jon calm them by talking to the giant in the  Old Tongue . Jon,  Iron Emmett , and  Bowen Marsh  weigh each recruit and assigned them to an order, with Leathers assigned to the rangers. [2] 
 Jon appoints Leathers as master-at-arms at  Castle Black , over the objection of  Bowen Marsh . [4]  Leathers serves as a translator for Jon and Wun Wun, teaching the Old Tongue to Jon and the  Common Tongue  to the giant. [5] 
 
 Quotes by Leathers 
 Cellador : Even in the south the treachery of  wildlings  is renowned. 
 Leathers :  That battle down below ? I was on t'other side, remember? Now I wear your blacks and train your boys to kill. Some might call me turncloak. Might be so ... but I am no more savage than  you crows . We have gods too.  The same gods  they keep in  Winterfell . [3] 
  -  Cellador  and Leathers
 Quotes about Leathers 
 Bowen : Is it true that you mean to replace  Emmett  with this savage Leathers as our master-at-arms? That is an office most oft reserved for  knights , or rangers at the least. 
 Jon : Leathers is savage. I can attest to that. I've tried him in the practice yard. He's as dangerous with a stone axe as most knights are with castle-forged steel. I grant you, he is not as patient as I'd like, and some of the boys are terrified of him ... but that's not all for the bad. One day they'll find themselves in a real fight, and a certain familiarity with terror will serve them well. [4] 
  -  Bowen Marsh  and  Jon Snow 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Leathers  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 35 , Jon VII. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 53 , Jon XI. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 39 , Jon VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 44 , Jon IX. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Leathers&oldid=213841 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Beyond the Wall Masters-at-arms Rangers of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch Recruits of the Night's Watch Wildlings Hidden category:  Characters without images   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
