
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lem 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Lem 
 Lem by  Amok© 
 Alias 
Lem Lemoncloak The Lemon The  Hound  (III) Yellow cloak Allegiance 
 Brotherhood without banners Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Played by 
Jóhannes Haukur TV series 
 Season 6 
 Lem , which is short for  Lemoncloak , after the yellow cloak he wears, is a member of the  brotherhood without banners . He is commonly known as  Lem Lemoncloak .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Lem 
 4   Quotes about Lem 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Lem 
 Lem has bad teeth, a bushy brown beard, and is known for his large, hooded yellow cloak. He has a fierce, soldier look to him. [1]  He is big and brawny. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lem and his companions stumble upon  Arya Stark ,  Gendry  and  Hot Pie  digging in a garden. After some archery from  Anguy , they convince the three young travelers to accompany them to the  Inn of the Kneeling Man . Arya breaks Lem's nose with a tankard before learning that  Harwin  is Lem's ally. [1] 
 Lem escorts Arya until they find Lord  Beric Dondarrion  in the  hollow hill . [3]  He takes part in the  battle at the burning septry , where he rides down the  Bloody Mummer  who killed  Kyle . [4] 
 Lem is skeptical of the  ghost of High Heart [5]  and he believes that Beric's survival after horrific wounds is due to the healing skill of  Thoros of Myr , although it is actually  magical  in nature. Lem is a supporter of the  Lord of Light , however. [4] 
 Lem participates in the retaliatory hangings of  Petyr  and  Merrett Frey  after the  Red Wedding . [6] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Lem's nose heals poorly. [2]  He continues to be a member of the brotherhood after  Lady Stoneheart  takes command. [7]  He hunts north along the  Green Fork  in search of the Mad Dog of Saltpans, the leader of a  savage sack of the town . [2] 
 Lem is delayed in returning to the the  crossroads inn , and he arrives after  Brienne of Tarth  duels  Rorge ,  Biter  attacks Brienne, and  Gendry  slays Biter. Lem decides to wear the  Hound 's helmet he took from Rorge's corpse, which Thoros opposes. Lem is present at the hangings of Brienne,  Podrick Payne , and Ser  Hyle Hunt , during which he implies to Brienne that his wife and daughter are dead. [2] 
 
 Quotes by Lem 
   Lem Lemoncloak - Illustrated by Mike Capprotti. © Fantasy Flight Games. 
 Dreams , what good are dreams?  Fish women  and  drowned crows . I had a dream myself last night. I was kissing this tavern wench I used to know. Are you going to pay me for that, old woman? [5] 
  - Lem to the  ghost of High Heart 
 
 
 What do a bunch o' bloody peasants know about  a lord 's honor? We know some about  murder , though. [6] 
  - Lem to  Merrett Frey 
 
 
 She don't speak.  You bloody bastards  cut her throat too deep for that. But  she remembers . [6] 
  - Lem to  Merrett Frey  regarding  Lady Stoneheart 
 Quotes about Lem 
 Lem, is that you? Still wearing that same ratty cloak, are you? I know why you never wash it, I do. You're afraid all the piss will wash out and we'll see you're really a  knight  o' the  Kingsguard ! [8] 
  -  Tansy  to Lem
 
 
 Even brave men blind themselves sometimes, when they are afraid to see. [4] 
  -  Beric Dondarrion  to  Thoros of Myr 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 13 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 42 , Brienne VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 34 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 39 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 22 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 29 , Arya V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lem&oldid=208681 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Riverlands Members of the Brotherhood Without Banners Outlaws Smallfolk   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
