
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Walder Frey (son of Merrett) 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Walder Frey  
 
 Alias 
Little Walder Allegiance 
 House Frey Born 
In  291 AC [1] , at the  Twins [2] Died 
In  300 AC , at  Winterfell Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) Personal Arms 
The twin towers of Frey, quartered with the brindled boar of  House Crakehall  and the plowman of  House Darry ( Quarterly, first and fourth, cendrée, a bridge azure, at either end a tower of the same (for Frey), second, tenné, a boar brindled argent and sable (for Crakehall), third, tenné a plowman sable (for Darry) ) 
 For other uses, see  Walder Frey (disambiguation) . 
 Walder Frey , nicknamed  Little Walder , is the son of  Merrett Frey  and  Mariya Darry . His personal coat of arms is the twin towers of  House Frey  quartered with the brindled boar of  House Crakehall  and the plowman of  House Darry . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Walder 
 4   Quotes about Walder 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Walder is tall and stout, with a red face and big round belly. He is known as "Little Walder" because he is fifty-two days younger than his cousin,  "Big Walder" Frey , although Little Walder has since grown half a foot taller. [4] 
 Little Walder's lambswool doublet is silver-grey with dark blue trim. [5]  His armor is fine silver plate with enameled blue chasings. His crest has streamers of blue and grey silk and he rides a dappled grey courser. [3] 
 Walder is boastful and mean. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Little Walder is present at the  Twins  when  Catelyn Stark  comes to treat with Lord  Walder Frey . As part of the terms allowing  Robb Stark  to cross at the Twins, Little Walder is sent to  Winterfell  to be fostered. [6] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Little Walder and his cousin,  Big Walder , are sent to Winterfell to become wards of  Catelyn Stark . They are tutored by Maester  Luwin . [7]  Little Walder quickly makes friends with  Rickon Stark , but is not friendly with  Bran Stark . [4]  The children play  monsters and maidens ,  rats and cats ,  come-into-my-castle , and  lord of the crossing , which Little Walder wins more often than not. [4]  Rickon angers Bran by showing the Freys the  crypts of Winterfell . [4] 
 During the  harvest feast , Little Walder trains with knights from  White Harbor ; Bran thinks Little Walder strikes the quintain harder than Big Walder. [3]  Little Walder dislikes the  Reed  siblings,  Meera  and  Jojen , considering the  crannogmen  to be frogeaters and mudmen. [8]  He also boasts of being able to slay Bran's  direwolf ,  Summer . [3]  When word of Ser  Stevron Frey 's death at  Oxcross  arrives at Winterfell, Little Walder and Big Walder argue over who is next in line to inherit the Twins, showing no sadness at their relative's passing. [9] 
 The Frey cousins are taken captive by  Theon Greyjoy  when he leads his  ironborn  in  capturing Winterfell . [10]  One of the cousins volunteers for Theon's party that searches the  wolfswood  for Bran and Rickon when they disappear from the castle. Although Theon does not identify which one, the boy states his desire for a wolfskin cloak and denigrates crannogmen. [11]  The Freys are spared by  Ramsay Snow  during the  sack of Winterfell . [12] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 A letter written by Big Walder and signed by both Frey cousins is sent to the  Twins  claiming  Theon Greyjoy  burned Winterfell.  Lame Lothar Frey  conveys this false report to  Robb Stark , now  King in the North . [13] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Little Walder has become a squire to Ramsay. [14] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Little Walder is offered as a husband to  Wylla Manderly  by  Rhaegar Frey  when Frey envoys go to  White Harbor  to return the bones of Ser  Wendel Manderly  to his father, Lord  Wyman Manderly . [15] 
 Little Walder and  Big Walder  bring  Theon Greyjoy , who has been mutilated by  Ramsay Bolton , from the  Dreadfort 's dungeon to Ramsay's feast with  Arnolf Karstark  and  Hother Umber . [5] 
 Lady  Barbrey Dustin  gives grey colts to Walder and his cousin when they join Ramsay in searching for  missing Freys  near  Barrowton . [16]  Theon notes Little Walder is becoming more and more like Ramsay, which disturbs Theon and Big Walder. [16] 
 Little Walder is present at  Winterfell  during the wedding of Ramsay and " Arya Stark ". [17]  With a snowstorm striking Winterfell, the cousins join other squires in building snowmen in the yard. [18]  One of  Abel 's girls teaches Little Walder how to dance. [19] 
 Later, Little Walder's frozen, bloody body is discovered in a snowbank below the ruined  First Keep  of Winterfell. A blood-spattered Big Walder accompanies Little Walder's uncle, Ser  Hosteen Frey , and his soldiers when they enter the Great Hall of Winterfell. According to Big Walder, Little Walder was looking for a White Harbor knight who owed silver from a game of dice. Wyman denies Hosteen's accusation of having ordered Walder's death, and an enraged Hosteen attacks Lord Manderly after he insults House Frey. The confrontation leaves six White Harbor men and two Freys dead. It takes the intervention of Lord  Roose Bolton 's men to prevent a battle within Winterfell. [20]  Theon suspects Abel and his girls of Little Walder's murder, but  Rowan  claims it is no work of theirs. [20] 
 
 Quotes by Walder 
 Big Walder : He'll set his  wolf  on you, cousin. 
 Little Walder : Let him. I always wanted a wolfskin cloak. 
 Bran :  Summer  would tear your fat head off. 
 Little Walder : Does your wolf have steel teeth, to bite through plate and mail? 
 Luwin : Enough! These threats are unseemly, and I'll hear no more of them. Is this how you behave at the  Twins , Walder Frey? 
 
 Little Walder : If I want to. [3] 
  -  Big Walder Frey , Little Walder,  Bran Stark , and  Luwin 
 Quotes about Walder 
 The big one they call little, it comes to me he's well named. Big outside, little inside, and mean down to the bones. [3] 
  -  Osha  to  Bran Stark 
 
 
 Both were squires, both were eight, and both were Walder Frey.  Big Walder  and Little Walder, yes. Only the big one was Little and the little one was Big, which amused the boys and confused the rest of the world. [5] 
  - thoughts of  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Little Walder had become Lord  Ramsay's  best boy and grew more like him every day, but  the smaller Frey  was made of different stuff and seldom took part in his cousin's games and cruelties. [16] 
  - thoughts of  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Hosteen : We know the man who did this. Killed this boy and all the rest. Not by his own hand, no. He is too fat and craven to do his own killing. But by his word. Do you deny it? 
 Wyman : I confess ... I confess that I know little of this poor boy. Lord  Ramsay's  squire, was he not? How old was the lad? 
 Hosteen : Nine, on his last nameday. 
 
 Wyman : So young. Though mayhaps this was a blessing. Had he lived he would have grown up to be a  Frey . [20] 
  -  Hosteen Frey  and  Wyman Manderly 
 Family 
 
   Walder   Amarei Crakehall             
                                                                                                                                   
 Hosteen   Bellena Hawick   Lucias Vypren   Lythene   Symond   Betharios of Braavos   Danwell   Wynafrei Whent                 
                                                                                                                           
 Arwood   Ryella Royce   Damon Vypren   Elyana Vypren   Jon Wylde   Alesander   Alyx   Bradamar           
                                                                                       
 Ryella   Androw   Alyn   Hostella   Rickard Wylde   
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                     
               Merrett   Mariya Darry                     Geremy   Carolei Waynwood           
                                                                                                                                                     
 Pate of the Blue Fork   Amerei   Lancel Lannister   "Fat" Walda   Roose Bolton   Marissa   "Little" Walder   Sandor   Cynthea           
 
 
 
 
                                                         
                     Raymund   Beony Beesbury       
                                                                                                                             
 Robert   Malwyn   Sarra   Serra   Cersei   Tywin   Jaime   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Walder Frey (Little Walder  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Walder Frey (Little). 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 12 , Reek I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 59 , Catelyn IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 28 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 21 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 19 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 32 , Reek III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 41 , The Turncloak. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 51 , Theon I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Walder_Frey_(son_of_Merrett)&oldid=212940 "  
 Categories :  House Frey Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Riverlands Hostages of House Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings House Bolton retainers House Stark wards Nobles Squires   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
