
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lollys Stokeworth 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Lollys Stokeworth  
 Art by Foolish-Arethousa 
 Alias 
Lollys Lackwit Title 
Lady of  Stokeworth Allegiance 
 House Stokeworth Born 
In  265 AC [1] Spouse 
Ser  Bronn  of the Blackwater Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Elizabeth Cadwallader TV series 
 Season 5 
 Lollys Stokeworth  is the youngest daughter of Lady  Tanda Stokeworth .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and character 
 See also:  Images of Lollys Stokeworth 
 Lollys is obese [2] [3]  and has brown eyes. [4]  She is considered  simple , [3]  placid, dull, [5]  timid and trusting. [6]  Lollys was still a maiden at age of thirty-three. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lord  Petyr Baelish  often dines with Lady  Tanda Stokeworth , who hopes he will marry her younger daughter Lollys. [7] [2]  The food is always excellent, including roast suckling pig, which Littlefinger tells  Eddard Stark  he would rather marry. [7] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Lollys is at the court of King  Joffrey Baratheon  after the start of the  War of the Five Kings . She attends the  Tourney for King Joffrey's 13th Name Day  with her mother Lady Tanda, and her sister  Falyse . [5] 
 Lady Tanda believes that  Tyrion Lannister  would be the perfect husband for Lollys, so she accosts him night and day. [8] [3] 
 Lollys is part of the court's procession to the docks of  King's Landing  to see Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  off to  Dorne . When the  Riot of King's Landing  begins and the mob goes mad, Lollys is pulled from her horse, and is raped by "half a hundred" men behind a tanner's shop. She is later found by the  gold cloaks , wandering naked on the street of Sowbelly Row. [9] 
 Due to the riot and the impending arrival of  Stannis Baratheon 's fleet, Tyrion feels that his mistress  Shae  is not safe in the King's Landing mansion he has placed her in.  Varys  suggests that she be made Lollys' maidservant, replacing the one who has been stealing her jewelry. He says that since Lollys is afraid to leave her chambers since being raped, this will keep Shae out of sight. Tyrion agrees, as he knows Queen  Cersei  dislikes the Stokeworths and thus is unlikely to discover Shae. [6] 
 In the  Red Keep 's  godswood ,  Sansa Stark  complains to  Dontos Hollard  that Queen Cersei and King Joffrey think she is stupid. He says to let them believe so, as she is safer that way, giving the example that no one ever spies on Lollys. Later that evening, when Sansa encounters  Sandor Clegane  on the roof of  Maegor's Holdfast , he asks her what kind of gods would make someone like Lollys. [10] 
 Shae is unhappy as Lollys's maidservant. She says all Lollys does is sleep and eat, and that Shae has to clean her when she gets food on herself. She is dismissive of Lollys's gangrape. Tyrion says that Lady Tanda says Lollys is ill, but Shae says Lollys is pregnant. [11] 
 When the  Battle of the Blackwater  begins, the noble ladies of King's Landing are invited to stay in  Maegor's Holdfast  for their safety. Sansa encounters Lady Tanda and Falyse Stokeworth, trying to coax Lollys to cross the drawbridge, but she is frightened, and struggles with them and her maidservant. Sansa speaks gently to Lollys, encouraging her to enter the safety of the holdfast, but Lollys still resists. Eventually Falyse and Shae manhandle Lollys across the bridge, and Lady Tanda excuses her behavior to Sansa, saying she has been sick. However, Sansa is aware of the common gossip that Lollys is pregnant from her rape. [4] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lollys is great with child. Shae meets Tyrion for a sexual encounter, but cannot stay long as Lollys may wake and call for her. [12] 
 When  Tywin Lannister  tells Tyrion he must marry Sansa Stark, Tyrion is reluctant. Tywin tells him if he will not marry Sansa, he still must marry a noblewoman, and that Lady Tanda has offered Lollys. Tyrion is horrified by the suggestion. [13] 
 Along with her mother and sister, Lollys attends the wedding of Sansa Stark and Tyrion Lannister. She cries during the ceremony. [14]  Tyrion has Shae transferred from being Lollys's maid to Sansa's. [15] 
 After Sandor Clegane has kidnapped  Arya Stark  for ransom, he tells her that she may think he's a monster, but that he saved her sister Sansa from the rioters who had pulled her from her horse, and if he hadn't she would have been raped like Lollys was. [16] 
 When Tyrion is in his tower cell after being arrested for the  murder  of King  Joffrey Baratheon , he calls for his  sellsword  Ser  Bronn  of the  Blackwater , in case he needs him as a champion in a potential  trial by combat . Bronn comes, but after some time and only reluctantly, as he is to marry Lollys in two days. Tyrion realizes that Cersei has arranged this marriage to take away his ally, and tries to argue Bronn out of the marriage. He says that Lollys is  lackwitted  and is pregnant with another man's  bastard  child, and is not even the heir to Stokeworth. Bronn replies he doesn't want wits, that soon after Lollys gives birth she'll be pregnant with his child, and that Falyse has no children and might die before her mother. As Tyrion cannot match Cersei's offer of a highborn wife and a castle, versus fighting  Gregor Clegane  to the death, he says farewell to Bronn. [17] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 During the funeral of Lord  Tywin Lannister , Lollys is in labor, so she and her mother remain at  Stokeworth . Falyse tells Cersei that Lady Tanda asked if they could name the baby Tywin, which Cersei forbids with indignation. [18] 
 When Lollys's son is born, strong and healthy,  Bronn  names him  Tyrion .  Jaime Lannister  finds this amusing, but Cersei is displeased by the sellsword's insolence. [19]  She tells Lady Falyse and her husband, Ser  Balman Byrch , that the name of Lollys's son may mean that Bronn is hiding knowledge of Tyrion's whereabouts (though she does not truly believe this [20] ), and conspires with them to kill Bronn. [21]  However, the plan backfires, and Bronn kills Balman and exiles Falyse from Stokeworth; not even letting her take her clothing, saying they belong to Lollys. When Falyse flees to Cersei in terror for her life, Cersei gives her to  Qyburn  for his experiments in the  black cells , to make her disappear and cover up the conspiracy. [20] 
 After the death of Lady Tanda Stokeworth from a chill brought on by a broken hip, and the imprisonment and subsequent death of her eldest daughter Lady Falyse, Lollys becomes the Lady of Stokeworth, with her husband Bronn calling himself Lord Stokeworth. [22] [20] 
 
 Quotes 
 I don't want to. [4] —Lollys Stokeworth 
 
 Tywin Lannister : If you will not have  the Stark girl , I shall find you another wife. Somewhere in the realm there is doubtless some little lordling who'd gladly part with a daughter to win the friendship of  Casterly Rock . Lady Tanda has offered Lollys... 
 Tyrion Lannister : I'd sooner cut it off and feed it to the goats. [13] 
 
 The  Seven Kingdoms  were full of highborn maidens, but even the oldest, poorest, and ugliest spinster in the realm would balk at wedding such lowborn scum as  Bronn . Unless she was soft of body and soft of head, with a fatherless child in her belly from having been raped half a hundred times. [17] —thoughts of  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 Family 
 
           Tanda   Unknown                     Manly     
                                                                                       
   Falyse   Balman Byrch   Unknown   Lollys   Bronn of the Blackwater           
                                     
                       Tyrion Tanner           
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Lollys Stokeworth  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 52 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 54 , Tyrion XII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 12 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 58 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lollys_Stokeworth&oldid=211031 "  
 Categories :  House Stokeworth Noblewomen Ruling ladies Characters from the Crownlands Lackwits Members of Robert Baratheon's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
