
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lothor Brune 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Lothor Brune  
 Lothor Brune © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Alias 
Lothor Apple-Eater Title 
 Ser Captain of the guards Allegiance 
 House Brune of Brownhollow House Baelish of Harrenhal Culture 
 Crownlands Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) Personal Arms 
A brown bearpaw on a white field, beneath three apple cores, red, green, and red, on a gold chief ( Argent, a bear's paw tenné, on a chief or, an apple-core vert between two apple-cores gules ) 
 Lothor Brune  is a  freerider . He is related to the  Brunes  of  Brownhollow  in the  Crackclaw Point  region of the  crownlands  but his loyalties lie with Lord  Petyr Baelish .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Lothor 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Lothor Brune 
 Lothor is a quiet, loyal man of middle age. He has a squashed nose, a square jaw and a mat of nappy grey hair. [1]  Lothor is stocky and strong. While not a handsome man, he is not ugly either. [1] [2] 
 
 History 
 Lothor is of low birth and is a distant, poorer cousin to House Brune. After his father's death, Lothor went to the  Brunes of Brownhollow  to attempt to form a family bond, but they said he was no kin of theirs. He also states that he learned what he knows of arms the hard way. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lothor takes part in the  Hand's tourney  in  King's Landing . He defeats  Jory Cassel  on a judgment by King  Robert I Baratheon , ties with Ser  Aron Santagar , and finally loses to Ser  Robar Royce . [3] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Lothor Brune is in the lists for the  tourney on King Joffrey's name day . However, as his opponent, Ser  Dontos Hollard , is too drunk to ride his horse, their tilt is called off. [4] 
 Lothor fights on behalf of Joffrey during the  battle of the Blackwater , cutting his way through  House Fossoway  men-at-arms to capture Ser  Jon Fossoway  and kill Ser  Bryan  and Ser  Edwyd , earning him the nickname  "Lothor Apple-Eater" , as the Fossoway's sigil is an apple. For his efforts in the battle, he is awarded his  knighthood  and is to be granted land and a keep in the  riverlands  at the end of the  War of the Five Kings . [5]  Lothor reassumes the  House Brune  arms differenced by the addition of his own achievement vis-à-vis the Fossoways. [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Taking orders from Lord  Petyr Baelish , Ser Lothor commands the crossbowmen who kill Ser  Dontos Hollard  to keep the secret of  Sansa Stark 's departure from the  Red Keep . [7]  Following the marriage of  Lysa Tully  and Petyr at the  latter's keep  in the  Fingers , Lothor protects Sansa, now under the alias  "Alayne Stone" , from the unwanted advances of the singer  Marillion . [1]  Upon his arrival at the  Eyrie , Lord Baelish dismisses the captain of the  guards , Ser  Marwyn Belmore , and names Lothor as his replacement. [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Ser Lothor Brune is part of the household of Lord  Petyr Baelish , now also  Lord Protector of the Vale . It is likely that he knows that Alayne Stone is really Sansa Stark. When Sansa says as much to Petyr, he remarks that Lothor is close-mouthed by nature and has  Oswell Kettleblack  watching him – and vice versa. [9] 
 During the parley with the  Lords Declarant , Ser Lothor stands at the door of the  solar . However, when Ser  Lyn Corbray  draws his  sword , Lothor goes for his. Before anything can happen, Lyn is convinced by the other  lords  to put down his sword. [10] 
 Sansa thinks Lothor fancies the late King  Robert I Baratheon 's  bastard  daughter,  Mya Stone . [2]  She notices that he always smiles when he speaks of Mya.
 
 Quotes about Lothor 
 It is a common face but an honest one. [2] 
  – thoughts of  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Sober, he was a quiet man, but a strong one. And  Petyr  says he’s loyal. He trusts him as much as he trusts anyone. [2] 
  – thoughts of  Sansa Stark 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  House Brune , June 03, 2000 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 61 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 80 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lothor_Brune&oldid=215420 "  
 Categories :  House Brune of Brownhollow House Baelish retainers Captains of the guards Characters from the Crownlands House Arryn guards Knights Landed knights Household knights Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Nobles Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
