
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lothar Frey 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Lothar Frey  
 
 Alias 
Lame Lothar Title 
Steward of the  Twins Allegiance 
 House Frey Culture 
 Rivermen Born 
In or between  264 AC  or  266 AC [1] , at the  Twins [2] Spouse 
 Leonella Lefford Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appendix) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Played by 
 Tom Brooke  ~  Season 3 Daniel Tuite ~  Season 6 TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 6 
 Lothar Frey , often called  Lame Lothar , is the twelfth son of Lord  Walder Frey  and the eldest son by his fourth wife Lady  Alyssa Blackwood . Lothar has served as Lord Walder's steward at the  Twins  for twelve years. He is married to  Leonella Lefford  and they have four children. [3]  He is portrayed by  Tom Brooke  and Daniel Tuite in the television adaptation  Game of Thrones .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Lothar is plump, with close-set eyes, a pointed beard, and dark hair in ringlets to his shoulders. He is intelligent, cunning and well-spoken. His nickname derives from a leg twisted at birth. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Although House Frey had allied with House Stark at the start of the  War of the Five Kings , the Freys angrily return home when  Robb Stark ,  King of the Trident , marries  Jeyne Westerling  instead of a daughter of Lord Walder Frey. [5] 
 Lame Lothar is sent by his father to  Riverrun  with the response of the  Twins  concerning the reconciliation of House Stark with House Frey. There he relays the demands that Lord  Edmure Tully  is to marry a Frey and that the choice of the bride will be Lord Walder's. While in Riverrun Lothar also participates in the funeral of  Hoster Tully  as one of the seven nobles sending off his funeral boat, and he tells Robb that  Winterfell has been burned . Lothar returns to the Twins with Robb's acquiescence to Edmure's marriage. [4] 
 When Robb goes to the Twins to make amends with Lord Walder Frey over breaking his marriage promise, Lothar meets him outside of the gate and behaves in a conciliatory manner. That night, he encounters Catelyn in the great hall while he is drinking with some of his relatives, behaving politely to her as well. [6]  However, Lothar is one of the prime engineers of the  Red Wedding  massacre that is about to occur, and had planned many of the key details with  Roose Bolton . It is Lothar's idea to use the song " The Rains of Castamere " as a signal for the slaughter to begin. [7]  According to  Merrett Frey , Lothar is more dangerous than most other members of  House Frey .
 
 Family 
 
                             Walder   Alyssa Blackwood             
                                                                                                                                                       
 Lothar   Leonella Lefford   Jammos   Sallei Paege   Whalen   Sylwa Paege   Morya   Flement Brax   Tyta                   
                                                                                                                           
           "Big" Walder   Dickon   Mathis             Robert Brax   Walder Brax   Jon Brax 
                                                                                                       
 Tysane   Walda   Emberlei   Leana   Hoster   Merianne 
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Lothar Frey  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Lothar Frey. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Epilogue . 
 
 
 
   
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House_Frey .  
The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House_Frey.  
As with the A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  GNU Free Documentation License .
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lothar_Frey&oldid=215417 "  
 Categories :  House Frey Characters from the Riverlands Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Turncloaks in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
