
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lyle Crakehall 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Lyle Crakehall  
 
 Alias 
Strongboar Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Crakehall Born 
At  Crakehall [1] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Ser  Lyle Crakehall , better known as  Strongboar , is a  knight  of  House Crakehall . He is the middle son of Lord  Roland Crakehall .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Lyle is big and strong with a booming voice. [2] [3]  Ser  Jaime Lannister  regards him as one of the strongest living men in Westeros when thinking of who could match him in a fight. [4]   Cersei Lannister  considers him an oaf of a knight. [5] 
 
 History 
 At the  Tourney at Lannisport  celebrating the victory of King  Robert Baratheon  over  Balon Greyjoy  and  his rebellion , Ser Lyle was unhorsed by the eventual champion, Ser  Jorah Mormont . [6] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Ser Lyle is part of Lord  Tywin Lannister 's army in the  Riverlands . He is captured at the  Battle of the Fords . [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Ser Lyle is held captive at  Pinkmaiden Castle . [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Ser Lyle attends the wedding of King  Tommen Baratheon  and  Margaery Tyrell . [5]  Stepping out of the  sept  with the newlyweds, Lyle makes a booming announcement saying that  Westeros  has two queens now and that the young one is as beautiful as the old one.  Cersei Lannister  feels like slapping Lyle, who often reminds the queen of her late and unlamented husband,  Robert Baratheon . Lyle remains in  King's Landing  after the wedding. Ser  Jaime Lannister  spots him training at quintain and cracking its shield in the yard of the  Red Keep . [9] 
 Lyle is a part of the force led by Jaime to aid in the capture of  Riverrun . During the party's stop at  Hayford , Lyle is among those invited to the supper within the castle. At  Harrenhal  Lyle tells  Pia  that she will now be protected. [2]  At  Darry  he is once again invited to supper within the castle where he offers his opinions about  smallfolk  who lie to their lords. He pledges to  Mariya Darry  and  Amerei Frey  he will return to Darry once the  siege at Riverrun  is over to kill  Sandor Clegane . [3] 
 Lyle is part of the war councils during the siege of Riverrun. [10]  After Riverrun falls, Lyle informs Jaime that he intends to return to Darry and search for Sandor. [11] 
 
 Quotes 
 No one will hurt you now. [2] 
  - Lyle to  Pia 
 
 
 Lyle : Lady Mariya, Lady Amerei, your distress has moved me. You have my word, once  Riverrun  has fallen I shall return to hunt down  the Hound  and kill him for you. Dogs do not frighten me. 
 Amerei : You are a  true knight , Ser Lyle, to help a lady in distress. [3] 
  - Lyle to  Mariya Darry  and  Amerei Frey 
 
 
 The Blackfish  deserves a nobler death, and I'm the man to give it to him. I will challenge him to single combat. Mace or axe or longsword, makes no matter. The old man will be my meat. [10] 
  - Lyle at the  Riverrun  war council
 
 
 We rode across half the bloody realm and for what? So you could make  Edmure Tully  piss his breeches? There's no song in that. I need a  fight . I want  the Hound , Jaime. Him, or  the marcher lord . [11] 
  - Lyle to  Jaime Lannister  after the  Siege of Riverrun 
 Family 
 
                                         
       Roland   Burton       
                                                         
   Tybolt   Lyle   Merlon   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Lyle Crakehall. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 30 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lyle_Crakehall&oldid=216629 "  
 Categories :  House Crakehall Nobles Characters from the Westerlands Knights Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Hostages of House Stark in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
