
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mace Tyrell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Mace Tyrell   
 Mace Tyrell by  Amok© 
 Alias 
Lord Oaf The Fat Flower Lord Puff Fish Title 
Lord of  Highgarden Defender of the Marches High Marshal of the Reach Warden of the South Hand of the King Master of ships  (formerly) Allegiance 
 House Tyrell Born 
In ~ 256 AC [1] Spouse 
 Alerie Hightower Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Roger Ashton-Griffiths TV series 
 Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6 
 Mace Tyrell  is head of  House Tyrell , Lord of  Highgarden ,  Defender of the Marches , High Marshal of the  Reach , and  Warden of the South . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Roger Ashton-Griffiths .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Mace 
 5   Quotes about Mace 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Mace Tyrell 
 Mace is a handsome and once-powerful-looking man who has since turned to fat. [2]  He has curly brown hair and cuts his beard, which has white and grey specks in it, into a triangular shape. [3] [4]  He is often red-faced. [4] [5]   Cersei Lannister  thinks of Mace as the same age as her father, Lord  Tywin Lannister , although Mace is closer in age to her than to Tywin. [4] 
 Mace has a generally jovial personality. [3]  He thinks himself a great warrior, [6]  although his reputation rests solely on the victory over  Robert I Baratheon  in the  Battle of Ashford  during  Robert's Rebellion , which had largely been won by Mace's bannerman, Lord  Randyll Tarly , before Mace even arrived at the battlefield, [3] [7]  and the command Mace held during the  siege of Storm's End  later that war, which ended when Mace dipped his banners to Lord  Eddard Stark . [3]  Mace is ambitious, wishing to see a grandchild of his on the  Iron Throne . [8]  Despite that, his mother, Lady  Olenna Tyrell , can easily hector him, and so influence his decisions. [9]  Mace is considered an oaf by his mother [8]  and by Cersei Lannister, [10]  and a fool by Prince  Oberyn Martell [11]  and Cersei. [4]  His favorite son is  Loras , the youngest, [12]  and his closest friend is Lord  Paxter Redwyne , [12]  his brother-in-law. Mace has a great dislike for  Dornishmen , especially Prince Oberyn Martell, who accidentally crippled Mace's heir,  Willas . [3] 
 Mace dresses in green velvet trimmed with sable, [2]  as well as a gold mantle over green. [13] 
 
 History 
 Mace became Lord of  Highgarden  once his father, Lord  Luthor Tyrell , rode off a cliff while hawking. [8] 
 During  Robert's Rebellion , Mace was in command of troops from the  Reach  who marched against Lord  Robert Baratheon  of  Storm's End . Mace is credited with defeating Robert in the  Battle of Ashford , although the van under Lord  Randyll Tarly  achieved most of the victory before Mace's arrival at  Ashford . [3]  He then led the  siege of Storm's End , which was successfully held by Robert's brother,  Stannis Baratheon . [14]  Mace and his closest bannerman, Lord  Paxter Redwyne , surrendered to Robert's ally, Lord  Eddard Stark , after the  Sack of King's Landing . [15] 
 According to  Oberyn Martell , Mace encouraged his heir,  Willas Tyrell , to participate in  tourneys  before he was ready, leading to the accidental crippling of Willas by Oberyn. [11]  Some of the  Iron Throne 's debts under the new king, Robert I Baratheon, are owed to Lord Mace. [16] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Mace Tyrell by The Mico © 
 After the death of King  Robert I Baratheon , Mace and his brothers, uncles, and sons are ordered to come to  King's Landing  to swear fealty to the new king,  Joffrey I Baratheon . [17]  Instead, Mace and his sons crown Robert's youngest brother,  Renly Baratheon , at  Highgarden , where Renly also weds Mace's daughter,  Margaery Tyrell . [18] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Mace serves Renly as  Hand of the King . [19]  While Renly slowly marches toward King's Landing with a huge host, Mace remains at Highgarden with ten thousand men. [20]  Mace closes the  roseroad , [21]  leading to famine and  rioting  in the capital. [22] 
 Renly is  slain at Storm's End  by a  shadow assassin  sent by  Melisandre ; [23]  Margaery claims the marriage was unconsummated. [24]  Lord  Petyr Baelish  rides to  Bitterbridge  to meet Mace's angry son, Ser  Loras Tyrell , [12]  and then to Highgarden to meet with Mace and his mother, Lady  Olenna Tyrell . [25]  Littlefinger negotiates an alliance between Houses  Baratheon ,  Lannister , and  Tyrell , including a marriage between King Joffrey and Margaery. Mace and his two younger sons,  Garlan  and Loras, wait with a huge host at  Tumbler's Falls , where they are joined by  Tywin Lannister ,  Mathis Rowan , and  Randyll Tarly . The combined army floats on Mace's fleet of barges along the  Blackwater Rush  toward the capital. They disembark half a day from King's landing, marching on to defeat  Stannis Baratheon . [26]  Mace commands the host's left during the  Battle of the Blackwater . [27] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Mace Tyrell by Lukasz Jaskolski © Fantasy Flight Games 
 After the  Battle of the Blackwater , the victorious great lords meet to divide the spoils, of which Mace is granted the lands of  House Florent  for his second son,  Garlan Tyrell . [28]  Mace, who is named  master of ships , [28]  and his entourage are housed in the  Maidenvault . [8]  As part of the alliance, Mace insists that his youngest son, Loras, join the Kingsguard to protect his sister, Margaery. [25]  Mace refuses Tywin's offer to wed  Willas Tyrell  to the widowed Queen  Cersei Lannister . [9] 
 As a wedding gift, Mace gives King Joffrey a seven-sided chalice decorated with great houses:  ruby lion ,  emerald rose ,  onyx stag ,  silver trout ,  blue jade falcon ,  opal sun , and  pearl direwolf . [29]  Mace removes Margaery's maiden cloak during her wedding to Joffrey. With the  War of the Five Kings  seemingly winding down, Mace complains there are no victories left for him. [21]  Joffrey chokes to death during the  wedding feast . [21] 
 Mace is meeting with Tywin and Prince  Oberyn Martell  when Ser  Jaime Lannister  returns to the capital. [30]  Mace, Tywin, and Oberyn serve as judges at the trial of  Tyrion Lannister  for the murder of Joffrey. [31]  Mace wants Tyrion dead because his daughter was drinking from the chalice that contained  the poison  that killed Joffrey. [13]  However, Littlefinger reveals to  Sansa Stark  that Mace's mother,  Olenna Tyrell , poisoned Joffrey. [25] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Cersei, the  regent  for her second son, the boy king  Tommen I Baratheon , does not trust Mace and his friends from the  Reach . [32]  Tywin Lannister had wanted Mace's uncle,  Garth Tyrell , to become  master of coin , but Cersei countermands her late father's decision and instead names Lord  Gyles Rosby . [32]  Cersei refuses to name Mace as  Hand of the King , fearing he conspired with Tyrion to murder Tywin. [4]  Cersei names  Aurane Waters  as  lord admiral . [33] 
 Cersei follows Jaime's suggestion [6]  to task Mace with capturing  Storm's End , which is held by Ser  Gilbert Farring  for Stannis. [34]  After Margaery weds Tommen in the royal sept of the  Red Keep , Mace sets out for Storm's End with Lord  Mathis Rowan  and half the Tyrell strength. [35] [36] 
 With Lord Tyrell gone from the capital, Cersei plots against his daughter, Queen Margaery. [33]  Accusations of immorality lead to the imprisonment of Margaery by the  Faith of the Seven . When Mace receives news of this he leaves the  siege of Storm's End  and marches his army back to King's Landing, leaving Lord Rowan to continue the siege with fewer men. Cersei allows Aurane to launch their  new dromonds  on the Blackwater to deter Mace, but Aurane absconds for open waters with the ships. [37]  The  High Sparrow  has Cersei arrested within the  Great Sept of Baelor . [37] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 At  Volon Therys ,  Laswell Peake  hints to  Harry Strickland  that the  Golden Company  still has friends in the  Reach , and that Mace overestimates his strength. [38] 
 Mace arrives at King's Landing to find that  Margaery  and her cousins have already been released by the High Sparrow, given the weak evidence against them. They are turned over to the custody of Mace's bannerman, Lord  Randyll Tarly , whose army reached the city first from  Maidenpool . The girls' release is conditional on Randyll's holy oath to return them for trial. Cersei is stripped of the regency. Her uncle, Ser  Kevan Lannister , arrives in the city and is made  regent  to King Tommen. To placate House Tyrell following Cersei's accusations, Kevan names Mace as  Hand of the King , Randyll Tarly as  justiciar , and  Paxter Redwyne  as  lord admiral . [39] 
 Despite numerous threats facing the  Iron Throne , including  Aegon Targaryen  and the Golden Company, Mace refuses to march his army from the city before Margaery's trial. Kevan grows increasingly resentful of Mace's apparent insatiability. Mace adds a hundred of  his own men  to the  City Watch of King's Landing  and plans a new  Tower of the Hand  double the size of its predecessor, [40]  which Cersei had burned with  wildfire . [35]  Mace seats himself on an oaken throne carved in the shape of a hand, and he intends to name his uncle Garth as  lord treasurer . [40]  Mace is unaware that  Nymeria Sand  is traveling from  Dorne  to the capital to join the  small council . [40] 
 
 Quotes by Mace 
 There is no greater pleasure than to serve the King's Grace. If I was deemed worthy to join your  royal council , you would find none more loyal or true. [2] 
  - Mace to  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 
 
 Is there anything as pointless as a king without a kingdom? No, it's plain,  the boy  must abandon the  riverlands , join his forces to  Roose Bolton 's once more, and throw all his strength against  Moat Cailin . That is what I would do. [3] 
  - Mace to  Joffrey I Baratheon's  small council
 
 
 Mace : Once  Paxter Redwyne  sweeps the  ironmen  from the seas, my sons will retake the  Shields .  The snows  will do for  Stannis , or  Bolton  will. As for  Connington  ... 
 Randyll : If it is him. 
 
 Mace  ... as for Connington, what victories has he ever won that we should fear him? He could have ended  Robert's Rebellion  at  Stoney Sept . He failed. Just as the  Golden Company  has always failed. Some may rush to join them, aye. The realm is well rid of such fools. [40] 
  - Mace and  Randyll Tarly 
 Quotes about Mace 
   "The thought that one day he might see his grandson with his arse on the  Iron Throne  makes Mace puff up like ... now, what do you call it?" [8]  - art by Eeba-ism © 
 Olenna : The thought that one day he may see his grandson with his arse on the  Iron Throne  makes Mace puff up like ... now, what do you call it? Margaery, you're clever, be a dear and tell your poor old half-daft grandmother the name of that queer fish from the  Summer Isles  that puffs up to ten times its own size when you poke it. 
 Margaery : They call them puff fish, Grandmother. [8] 
  -  Olenna Tyrell  and  Margaery Tyrell 
 
 
 He has a prodigious appetite, this one. [3] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Robb Stark  had won more battles in a year than the Lord of  Highgarden  had in twenty. [3] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 The mob loved  Margaery  so much they were even willing to love  Joffrey  again. She had belonged to  Renly , the handsome young prince who had loved them so well he had come back from beyond the grave to save them. And the bounty of  Highgarden  had come with her, flowing up the  roseroad  from the south. The fools didn't seem to remember that it had been Mace Tyrell who closed the roseroad to begin with, and made the bloody famine. [21] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 You would be a fool to make Mace Tyrell your  Hand , but a bigger fool to make him your foe. [4] 
  -  Kevan Lannister  to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 His sigil ought to be a fat man sitting on his arse. [41] 
  -  Cersei Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 The more I give him, the more he wants. [40] 
  -  Kevan Lannister 's thoughts
 Family 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
     Luthor   Olenna Redwyne                 Gormon             Garth               Moryn           
                                                                                                                                                                               
 Mace   Alerie Hightower   Janna   Jon Fossoway   Mina   Paxter Redwyne   Garse Flowers   Garrett Flowers   Luthor   Elyn Norridge   Leo "the Lazy"               
                                                                                                                                                                                             
 Willas     Garlan   Leonette Fossoway         Horas Redwyne   Hobber Redwyne   Desmera Redwyne   Lia Serry   Theodore   Olene   Leo Blackbar   Medwick         
                                                                                                                   
     Loras   Renly Baratheon   Margaery     Joffrey Baratheon                   Elinor   Luthor       
                                                                               
                               Tommen Baratheon                                             
                                                                             
     Quentin             Normund                       Victor 
                                                                                               
     Olymer   Lysa Meadows                 Jon Bulwer   Victaria         Leo   Alys Beesbury             
                                                                                                                                                                       
   Raymund     Rickard     Megga           Alysanne Bulwer   Lyonel   Alla   Lucas   Lorent   Leona       
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Mace Tyrell  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 78 , Samwell V. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4   8.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 20 , Eddard IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1   21.2   21.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1   25.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 62 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 59 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑  32.0   32.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  33.0   33.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  35.0   35.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑  37.0   37.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  40.0   40.1   40.2   40.3   40.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mace_Tyrell&oldid=211977 "  
 Categories :  House Tyrell Characters from the Reach Hands of the King Masters of ships Nobles Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Supporters of Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Wardens   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
