
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Maege Mormont 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Maege Mormont  
 by Emile Denis © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Alias 
The She-Bear Title 
 Lady of Bear Island Allegiance 
 House Mormont Culture 
 Northmen Born 
In or between  239 AC  and  257 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Elizabeth Barrett TV series 
 Season 1 
 Maege Mormont , known as  the She-Bear , is the head of  House Mormont  and the Lady of  Bear Island . She inherited her title from her nephew, Ser  Jorah Mormont , after he fled into exile. She is the younger sister of the  Lord Commander  of the  Night's Watch ,  Jeor Mormont . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Maege 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Maege Mormont 
 Maege is a short, stout, grey-haired woman, and a fierce warrior. She dresses in patched ringmail, and her favored weapon is a spiked mace. [3] [4]  She is dedicated to the  old gods , and loyal to  House Stark . According to her brother, Jeor, she is stubborn, short-tempered, and willful. [5] 
 
 History 
 Maege inherited the title of head of House Mormont and ruler of Bear Island after her brother's only heir, Jorah Mormont, fled to the  Free Cities  to escape justice for unlawfully selling poachers into  slavery  to pay for his debts. She worked hard to regain the family's noble name, and to help the estate recover from the state of near-poverty Jorah left behind. [6] 
 Maege has five daughters: her eldest and heir,  Dacey ; and  Alysane ,  Lyra ,  Jorelle , and  Lyanna . She has no sons.
 No one knows who the father of Maege's children is, or even if she ever married. [7]  There are rumors that she beds with a bear; [8] [9]  her daughter, Alysane, smilingly shares the same rumor, claiming that Mormont women are  skinchangers  who turn into bears and find mates in the woods. [10]  Maege prefers to keep her own counsel. [7]  Nonetheless, all of Maege's daughters carry the surname "Mormont", and none appear to be considered  bastards . It is possible that Maege's husband came from a family of lower nobility than the Mormonts, or no nobility at all, in which case a woman can prefer to retain her own surname for herself and for her children. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Maege Mormont by TheMico 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lady Maege and her heir,  Dacey , lead their forces to  Winterfell  when  Robb Stark  calls his banners to ride south against the  Lannisters . [3]  When the northern host splits at  the Twins , Maege continues south in Robb's host. Her forces signal the springing of the trap at the  Battle of the Whispering Wood . [11]  After Lords  Greatjon Umber  and  Rickard Karstark  proclaim Robb to be  King in the North  at  Riverrun , Maege hails Robb as "King of Winter". [12] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After the  Battle of Oxcross , Lady Mormont captures thousands of cattle in the  Westerlands  and drives them towards the  Riverlands . It is not stated whether or not she manages to succeed in this task, as the passage back to the Riverlands is still held by the Lannisters. [13] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lady Maege is among the northern lords who accompanies King Robb Stark north from  Riverrun  to attend the wedding of  Edmure Tully  at  the Twins . At  Hag's Mire , however, she and  Galbart Glover  are ordered by Robb to travel to  Seagard . There they are to take separate ships from Lord  Jason Mallister  to sail up  the Neck  and to search for  Greywater Watch  as envoys to the  crannogmen , in preparation for Robb's planned attack on  ironborn -occupied  Moat Cailin . The letters they carry will contain false commands for northern lords, however, in case they are captured by enemies. [14]  Maege's heir, Dacey, is one of those killed at the Twins during the  Red Wedding . [15] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Alysane Mormont  mentions her mother, Maege, when  Asha Greyjoy  asks about her siblings. Maege is with two of her other daughters,  Lyra  and  Jory , though it is not said where, while her youngest,  Lyanna  is back on Bear Island. [10] 
 
 Quotes about Maege 
 You are not the only one touched by this war. Like as not, my sister is marching in  your brother ’s host, her and those daughters of hers, dressed in men’s mail. Maege is a hoary old snark, stubborn, short-tempered, and willful. Truth be told, I can hardly stand to be around the wretched woman, but that does not mean my love for her is any less than the love you bear your half sisters. [5] 
 
 -  Jeor Mormont  to  Jon Snow 
 
 Family 
 
                                                                 
     Unknown   Jeor               Maege   Unknown         
                                                                                                                                 
 Unknown  Glover   Jorah   Lynesse Hightower   Dacey   Alysane   Unknown   Lyra   Jorelle   Lyanna         
                                                               
                                 Daughter [16]   Son [16]   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Maege Mormont  calculation. 
 
 ↑   Maege's possible years of birth all take place after Jeor's year of birth. See the  Maege Mormont calculation  and the  Jeor Mormont calculation  for more information. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 53 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 70 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑   RPG Book, Guardians of Order, 2005 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   So Spake Martin :  SF, Targaryens, Valyria, Sansa, Martells, and More (June 26, 2001) 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 6 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 8 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 42 , The King's Prize. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 63 , Catelyn X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 39 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   It is currently unknown whether Alysane's children are trueborn, or bastardborn. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Maege_Mormont&oldid=219999 "  
 Categories :  House Mormont Characters from the North Noblewomen Ruling ladies Warrior Women Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
