
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Pylos 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Pylos 
 Art by Joshua Cairós. © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Title 
Maester Allegiance 
 House Baratheon of Dragonstone Born 
In  273 AC  or  274 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Pylos  is a  maester  of the  Citadel  newly sent to serve  Stannis Baratheon  at  Dragonstone . He is to be the eventual replacement for Maester  Cressen .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Character 
 No more than twenty-five years old, Pylos is very solemn and polite. [2]  He is clever and diligent and well-meaning, [3]  as well as kind [3]  and courageous, [4]  and can see a man's worth is more than his birth. [3] 
 
 History 
 When Maester Cressen became ill in  298 AC , Pylos was sent by the  Citadel  to Dragonstone. It was said that he was to be Cressen's assistant, but Cressen was aware that truly Pylos was to be his replacement when he died. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Davos Seaworth  and Maester Pylos art by theslytod 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Pylos serves on Dragonstone as an assistant maester, helping Maester Cressen, who is too old and frail to perform all his duties. He brings the  white raven  (sent from the Citadel to announce the end of summer) to show to Princess  Shireen Baratheon . Cressen is distraught when he arrives late to Stannis's feast to find that Pylos is in his place at the table. [2] 
 After Cressen's death, Pylos is now Dragonstone's offical maester. He helps prepare Stannis Baratheon's letter to all the lords of  Westeros  that proclaims him the true king and asserts that Ser  Jaime Lannister , not  Robert Baratheon , is the father of  Cersei Lannister 's children (and thus that  Joffrey Baratheon  is a  bastard  born of  incest  and illegitimately sitting the throne). [5] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 When Ser  Davos Seaworth  is imprisoned in Dragonstone's dungeons, he takes ill and Maester Pylos treats him. [6]  Pylos also treats the sick  Edric Storm  (bastard son of Robert Baratheon), leeching him; these blood-filled leeches are used by  Melisandre  in her ritual to curse the false kings, Joffrey Baratheon,  Balon Greyjoy , and  Robb Stark . [7] 
 Maester Pylos educates the children on Dragonstone, Princess Shireen Baratheon, Edric Storm, and  Devan Seaworth . After Davos Seaworth is raised to the position of Stannis's  Hand of the King , he seeks out Maester Pylos for guidance, and to be taught how to read and write. During this process, Pylos shows Davos a letter from  Maester Aemon  of the  Night's Watch , begging for assistance from the  five kings  against the  wildling  forces of  Mance Rayder  and the oncoming threat of the  Others . Pylos tells Davos that Stannis had not yet seen the letter, as his previous Hand  Alester Florent  had deemed it not worth his attention or resources. [3] 
 Pylos is made aware of Davos's plan to remove Edric Storm from Dragonstone to keep him safe from Melisandre's scheme to sacrifice him, and chooses to cooperate with it. Pylos becomes an essential part of the plan, as Edric is taken to a ship to the  Free Cities  during his lessons with the maester, and he also encourages the boy to follow Davos's orders. Davos thinks how he had been unsure of Pylos, perhaps because of resentment over Cressen's death; but now he can only admire the maester's courage, since if Stannis judges the plan as treason Pylos could also be executed. [4] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Though Stannis and his army have left for the  Wall , Pylos remains at Dragonstone as part of its garrison. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Davos recalls that Maester Pylos had taught him to read. [9] [10] 
 
 Quotes 
 Davos Seaworth : The King's Hand should be a highborn lord, someone wise and learned, a battle commander or a great knight... 
 Maester Pylos : Ser  Ryam Redwyne  was the greatest  knight  of his day, and one of the worst Hands ever to serve a king.  Septon   Murmison 's prayers worked miracles, but as Hand he soon had the whole realm praying for his death. Lord  Butterwell  was renowned for wit,  Myles Smallwood  for courage, Ser  Otto Hightower  for learning, yet they failed as Hands, every one. As for birth, the  dragonkings  oft chose Hands from amongst their own blood, with results as various as  Baelor Breakspear  and  Maegor the Cruel . Against this, you have Septon  Barth , the blacksmith's son the  Old King  plucked from the  Red Keep 's library, who gave the realm forty years of peace and plenty. Read your history, Lord Davos, and you will see that your doubts are groundless. [3] 
 
 Any man can read, my lord. There is no magic needed, nor high birth. [3] 
 
 Davos had been uncertain of Pylos. Perhaps he resented him for taking old Cressen's place. But now he could only admire the man's courage.  This could mean his life as well . [3] 
  - Davos's thoughts when he comes for  Edric Storm 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Pylos  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 63 , Davos VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 10 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 25 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 36 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 15 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 19 , Davos III. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Pylos&oldid=207599 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon retainers Maesters   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
