
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Colemon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Colemon 
 © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Title 
 Maester Allegiance 
 House Arryn Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Colemon  is  Maester  in service to  House Arryn .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Colemon 
 He is thin and nervous, with too little hair and too much neck. [1] 
 
 History 
 Colemon was the personal maester to  King's Hand  Lord  Jon Arryn  during his stay in  King's Landing . He treated Jon Arryn when illness struck him by purging him. When Arryn's condition began to improve, Colemon was sent away by  Grand Maester   Pycelle . Jon Arryn's illness worsened afterwards, and he soon died. [2] 
 After Jon's death Colemon returned to the Eyrie with the rest of Lady  Lysa Arryn 's entourage. [1]  He was entrusted with constant care of Lysa's child, young Lord  Robert Arryn , who is afflicted with a shaking sickness. Colemon leeched him often to rid of his bad blood and gave him concoctions to ease his pain. [ citation needed ] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Maester Colemon greets Lady  Catelyn Stark  upon her arrival at the  Eyrie . [1]  When a letter from  Edmure Tully  arrives at the  Eyrie  informing Catelyn and  Lysa Aryn  about the conflict between  Casterly Rock  and  Riverrun , Colemon informs Ser  Brynden Tully  about its contents. [3]  Nervous about the upcoming bloodshed, Colemon gets drunk on wine before  Tyrion Lannister 's  trial by battle  is to start, and lets it slip to Catelyn and Ser  Rodrik Cassel  that Lord  Jon Arryn  had planned to send his young son  Robert  to  Dragonstone , to be fostered by Lord  Stannis Baratheon . [3] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 During his interrogation by  Tyrion Lannister ,  Grand Maester   Pycelle  lets it slip that Colemon had been having success in purging the poison which had been killing  Jon Arryn , and that he had sent Colemon away to allow Lord Jon's condition to worsen. [2] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Colemon serves Lady  Lysa Arryn  and her son, Lord  Robert Arryn , at the  Eyrie . He is often worried about young Robert's shakes and treats them by leeching his blood. [4] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Colemon is present when Lord  Petyr Baelish  welcomes Lord  Nestor Royce  to the  Eyrie . [5]  He is in attendance when  Alayne Stone  tells how Lady  Lysa Arryn  had been killed by the singer  Marillion . When Lord  Robert Arryn , upon hearing the tale, suffers another attack from his shaking sickness, Colemon goes to the boy's chambers to bleed him. [5]  He later gives Robert  dreamwine  to help him sleep when the boy claims to hear Marillion singing in the night. [6] 
 Colemon expresses his worries about the treatments he gives Robert to Lord Baelish, as Robert's spells have grown worse since the boy's mother has died. Baelish orders him to add a pinch of  sweetsleep  to the boy's milk, before bringing him to meet the  Lords Declarant . [6] 
 Lady  Anya Waynwood  attempts to persuade Baelish to send Robert to  Runestone , where Lord  Yohn Royce 's maester,  Helliweg , could treat Robert, claiming that Helliweg is more experienced and better suited to treat Robert's frailties than Colemon. [6] 
 The day the inhabitants of the  Eyrie  are to descent in preparation for winter, Robert empties his chamber pot upon Colemon. Robert complains to Alayne Stone that Colemon had put something "vile" in his milk. Colemon suggests giving Robert some  milk of the poppy  so the boy will slumber during the descent, but Alayne refuses the notion. She orders him instead to give Robert a cup of sweetmilk, which the maester objects to, fearing the poison is building up too much in Robert's blood. He reveals that Robert's blood has grown so thin that he had begun to fear leeching the boy. When Alayne insists that Colemon should give Robert a cup of sweetmilk before the descent, and one shortly after, Colemon insists that it must be the last cup for at least half a year. [7]  He later accompanies Robert and Alayne down the mountain. [7] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 40 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 80 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Colemon&oldid=206517 "  
 Categories :  Articles with unsourced statements Maesters Characters from Westeros House Arryn retainers Hidden category:  Articles that Need Verification   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
