
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Margaery Tyrell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
     Margaery Tyrell 
 Margaery Tyrell by Sardag 
 Alias 
Little rose [1] Little queen [2] Maid Margaery [3] Title 
Queen of the  Seven Kingdoms Allegiance 
 House Tyrell Culture 
 Reach Born 
In  283 AC [4] , at  Highgarden [5] Spouse 
1st: King  Renly Baratheon 2nd: King  Joffrey Baratheon 3rd: King  Tommen Baratheon Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Natalie Dormer TV series 
 Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6 
 Margaery Tyrell  is the only daughter of Lord  Mace Tyrell  and his wife, Lady  Alerie Hightower . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is played by  Natalie Dormer . [6] [7] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Margaery 
 5   Quotes about Margaery 
 6   Family 
 7   Behind the Scenes 
 8   Notes 
 9   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Margaery Tyrell 
 Margaery has thick, softly curling brown hair and large brown eyes. [8] [9] [3]  She has a slender [10]  but womanly figure [3]  with smooth and unblemished [3]  pale skin [11]  and small breasts. [12]  Margaery is fair and lively, [3]  with a shy and sweet smile. [8] [13]  She is regarded as beautiful [14] [10] [15] [11] [3]  or pretty [16] [3]  by most.  Tyrion Lannister  considers her to be just as comely as  Sansa Stark . [17]  Both Sansa and  Cersei Lannister  note the similarities in appearance between Margaery and her youngest brother,  Loras . [10] [18]  According to Cersei, Margaery and Loras look more alike than Cersei and her twin,  Jaime . [3]  According to  Renly Baratheon , there are people who claim Margaery looks like  Lyanna Stark . [9] 
 Margaery is intelligent [16]  and shrewd, [19]  taking after her cunning grandmother, Lady  Olenna Tyrell . [15]  Margaery is her protégée, and as such, Olenna has made certain that Margaery is capable of protecting herself from those who might use or abuse her. [5]   Varys  describes Margaery as sweet and tractable. [14]  Sansa considers Margaery to be sweet and gentle, [15]  while Cersei considers her to be restless, as Margaery often goes for a ride, a trip by boat, or out hawking. [20]  The generous Margaery is popular with  smallfolk . [20] [21]  She follows the  Faith of the Seven . [20] 
 Margaery's attire includes a sheer gown of ivory silk,  Myrish  lace, and seed pearls. [3]  She also wears green with a cloak of autumn flowers, [10]  and a pale green samite gown with a tight-laced bodice that bares her shoulders and the top of her bosom. [12] 
 
 History 
 Margaery was born at  Highgarden [5]  in  283 AC [4]  to Lord  Mace Tyrell  and Lady  Alerie Hightower . She has three older brothers,  Willas ,  Garlan , and  Loras . When she was a little girl, Willas used to read to her, and draw her pictures of the stars. [10]  Margaery has been riding horses since she was old enough to walk. [20] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Margaery Tyrell by Lauren Cannon © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Lord  Renly Baratheon  shows Lord  Eddard Stark  an exquisite rose gold locket with a picture of Margaery inside, painted in the vivid  Myrish  style. Renly is anxious to know if Margaery reminds Eddard of anyone, and is disappointed when Eddard has no answer but a shrug. When Renly tells Eddard that there are people who say that Margaery looks like  Lyanna Stark , Eddard's late sister, Eddard is bemused, believing that it is ironic that Renly, who looks like a young  Robert I Baratheon , might be in love with a girl he fancies to be a Lyanna. Unfortunately for Renly, Eddard disagrees that Margaery looks like his late sister. [9]  However, in contrast to Eddard's beliefs, Renly and  Loras Tyrell  actually hope to rid themselves of Queen  Cersei Lannister , by getting Robert, who is still in love with Lyanna after fourteen years, to become infatuated with Margaery, as  Varys  informs  Illyrio Mopatis . According to Varys, Loras writes his father,  Mace Tyrell , urging him to send Margaery to court. [14]  Later, during the  Hand's tourney , Robert mentions to Eddard that Renly has been telling him about Loras's sister, a young girl as lovely as a dawn. [22] 
 Following Robert's death, Renly flees to Highgarden, where he marries Margaery and is crowned king. [23] [24] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Margaery accompanies Renly and his army on their slow march to  King's Landing . When they are at  Bitterbridge , word arrives that  Stannis Baratheon  has besieged  Storm's End , Renly's seat. Renly departs with his cavalry, leaving Margaery at Bitterbridge with his infantry. [25] 
 After hearing Renly has been killed during the  siege of Storm's End , the  small council  sends  Petyr Baelish  as an envoy to Bitterbridge. The Tyrells ally with the  Lannisters  by planning to wed Margaery to King  Joffrey I . [26] [27]  Margaery, who has returned to Highgarden, is sent for by her family. [27] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Margaery Tyrell by Amok © 
 Now betrothed to King  Joffrey I Baratheon , Margaery travels to  King's Landing . She is accompanied by a train of ladies, most of whom are either relatives of her or the daughters of her father's bannermen, while others are to be her ladies-in-waiting. They include  Alla ,  Elinor , and  Megga Tyrell ; Lady  Alysanne Bulwer ; Lady  Alyce Graceford ; Lady  Taena Merryweather ;  Meredyth Crane ; and Septa  Nysterica . [28] 
 Prior to her arrival, wagons of food have been send to the city for the starting population. As this is done in Margaery's name, she is greeted in King's Landing by cheering crowds. [N 1]  Margaery invites  Sansa Stark  to supper. There, she and her grandmother  Olenna  make inquiries about Joffrey's nature, until Sansa reveals how Joffrey and Cersei have been treating her. Although Sansa fears the revelation will cause Margaery to refuse the marriage, Margaery and Olenna confide in Sansa that Mace is determined to see Margaery become a queen, while simply calling Joffrey's nature "a pity". [10]  Margaery and Olenna suggest to Sansa that she travel to  Highgarden  after Margaery's wedding, secretly plotting to marry Sansa to Margaery's eldest brother,  Willas . [10]  Margaery and her ladies take Sansa in, taking her hawking, doing needlework with her, and other such pastimes. [15] 
 When  the Lannisters  discover the Tyrell plot to marry Sansa to Willas, Sansa is quickly married off to  Tyrion Lannister . Although Margaery and the Tyrells are not present for the wedding ceremony, they are present at the feast, where Margaery gives Sansa a sad look. When Tyrion refuses to participate in the first dance with Sansa, Margaery and Joffrey lead in their stead. [29] 
 Margaery marries Joffrey on the first day of  300 AC  at the  Great Sept of Baelor , with the  High Septon  officiating the ceremony. [12]  Following the ceremony,  a great feast  is held in the  Red Keep . There, however, Joffrey dies after drinking poisoned wine. [12]  Margaery attends the trial of Tyrion, who is charged with the murder, dressed in mourning clothes. [11] 
 Sansa is smuggled out of the city by  Dontos Hollard , who brings her to  Petyr Baelish  in  Blackwater Bay . Littlefinger reveals that Olenna had poisoned Joffrey to prevent Joffrey from hurting Margaery and Loras from becoming a kingslayer in order to protect his sister. He reasons that, although Mace is insistent on making Margaery queen, Olenna realized that Joffrey was not needed for this. He predicts that Margaery will soon marry Joffrey's younger brother  Tommen . [30] 
 Littlefinger's prediction proves to be correct. The Tyrells soon begin insisting that Tommen should be married to Margaery. [31]  Lord  Tywin Lannister  suggests to his son  Jaime  that he, as heir to  Casterly Rock , could leave the  Kingsguard  and marry Margaery, but Jaime is opposed to the idea. [31]  Although Jaime sees no harm in the match between Margaery and Tommen, as Tommen, who had been lonely ever since his sister  Myrcella  left for  Dorne , likes having Margaery and her ladies around, his sister Cersei is opposed to it. [32] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Margaery Tyrell by Anders Finer © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Margaery attends several of the services held in the  Great Sept of Baelor  for the wake of Lord  Tywin Lannister . [18] [16] 
 Margaery marries King  Tommen I Baratheon  in a small ceremony in the  Red Keep 's royal sept, followed by a much smaller feast than her previous wedding had. [3]  During the feast, Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister  is approached by  Taena of Myr , who claims that Margaery is paying Cersei's maid  Senelle  to spy on Cersei for her. [3]  Following the feast, Margaery accompanies the guests outside to watch the  pyromancers  burn down the  Tower of the Hand  with  wildfire . [3]  As the Tyrells have insisted that Margaery and Tommen share a bed during their wedding night, despite the fact that Tommen is too young for consummation, Ser  Jaime Lannister  escorts them to Tommen's room and stays there all night on the orders of Cersei, to prevent the boy from being left alone with his new wife. [3] 
 When Cersei asks Margaery's leave to take Taena on as her own companion, Margaery reacts thrilled. Both Cersei and Jaime believe Taena to be a spy informing Margaery of Cersei's doings. Cersei gives Taena only the information she wants Margaery to know, with most of it being untrue. Additionally, Taena informs Cersei of everything Margaery does. [33]  Cersei's hatred for Margaery and her family has been building for years, and after Taena informs Cersei that  Horas  and  Hobber Redwyne  are in love with Margaery, Cersei begins to plot Margaery's downfall. [2]  Cersei does not believe that Margaery is still a maiden, as she claims to be. [34] [3]  She convinces Ser  Osney Kettleblack  to seduce Margaery, and plans to have Osney's brother  Osmund  catch them abed. She tells Taena to inform Margaery of a secret admirer. [2] 
 Margaery begins to instruct Tommen on his kingship, telling him he should sit on the  Iron Throne  and attend the  small council  meetings, which annoys Cersei, who plans to rule until Tommen  comes of age . [35]  Meanwhile, Cersei names Osney as Tommen's  sworn shield , so he can spend more time in Margaery's presence, but soon grows impatient as Margaery does not respond to Osney's charms the way Cersei had hoped. Osney's brother Osmund insists it is because Osney and Margaery are never alone, because Margaery is always surrounded by her septa, her ladies, or other men. Mention of the latter inspires Cersei, [35]  who further inquires about them with Taena. [20]  Taena names Ser  Lambert Turnberry ,  Bayard Norcross ,  Courtenay Greenhill , and  Portifer  and  Lucantine Woodwright  as admirers of Margaery, and identifies  Grand Maester   Pycelle  as a frequent visitor as well. [20]  When Cersei inquires Taena's recollection of Margaery's wedding night with Renly, Taena claims that even though Margaery insists that Renly had drunk too much wine at the wedding feast to consummate the marriage, his manhood had been anything but weary when she had last seen it. Taena also admits that no bloody sheet was shown the next morning, which Cersei acknowledges means little, as highborn girls often break their maidenhead by horse riding. [20] 
 Margaery's frequent invitations to Tommen to accompany her on trips near the city, and Cersei's frequent refusal to allow him to go, make Tommen sullen with Cersei. Cersei believes that Margaery is attempting to steal Tommen from her. [20]  Margaery tells Tommen that he should attend court, to listen to the petitioners, and starts to openly object to Cersei's hatred for Margaery. [36]  Meanwhile Margaery does much to gain favor with the residents of King's Landing by visiting local markets to buy fresh fruits, bread, and fish, ordering dresses from local seamstresses, and making great public shows of charity. [20] 
 After the  taking of the Shields  by the  ironborn , Margaery has her messengers wake up the  small council  to discuss how to answer the attack. She recognizes the military threat and insists that her father and his forces be allowed to return to the  Reach , abandoning the  siege of Storm's End . She is shocked when Cersei refers to the  Shield Islands  as "rocks" and seems to lack understanding for the threat posed by the ironborn. She is shocked even more when Loras asks permission to take  Dragonstone , so the  Redwyne fleet  is no longer needed at the island and return to the Reach to face the ironborn. [37]  Although Loras is successful in taking Dragonstone, he is severely injured. Margaery is tearful when Cersei informs her of Loras's injuries, and when Cersei implies Loras's impending death, Margaery orders her to leave. [36] 
 Margaery remains distraught about Loras and brings Tommen to the sept every day to pray for her brother. Cersei questions Pycelle about his frequent visits to Margaery, and has him confess to providing Margaery with  moon tea . She next invites the  Blue Bard  over, and questions him about his sexual history with Margaery. Although the Blue Bard denies the claims, Cersei has him arrested and brought to  Qyburn . The master of whisperers tortures the bard until the man claims to have had sex with Margaery's cousins and played music for Margaery while she entertained lovers herself. He names several men, including Horas and Hobber Redwyne, and Loras Tyrell, but Cersei insists they are not to be charged. [19] 
 
   When  Cersei Lannister  visits Margaery after her arrest, Margaery accuses Cersei of involvement in her troubles. Art by Cabepfir© 
 On  Maiden's Day , Margaery fasts and purifies herself, as is required of all maidens. This inspires Cersei, who orders Ser Osney Kettleblack to confess sleeping with Margaery, and her cousins  Elinor  and  Megga Tyrell  to the new High Septon, the so-called  High Sparrow . [19]  Osney goes to confess, and Margaery and her cousins are arrested by the Faith. [21]  Her clothes are taken, and she is given a roughspun shift to wear. She is separated from her cousins, and visited every hour by a septa, even during the night, who asks Margaery to confess her fornications. [21]  Margaery is accused of lewdness, fornication, adultery, and high treason. At the behest of the High Septon, Septa  Moelle  examinates Margaery, and finds that her maidenhead has been broken. Moelle reports this at court, where Pycelle adds how he provided moon tea for Margaery on several occasions. Cersei has Ser  Tallad the Tall ,  Jalabhar Xho ,  Hamish the Harper ,  Hugh Clifton ,  Mark Mullendore , Bayard Norcross, Lambert Turnberry, Horas and Hobber Redwyne, and the Blue Bard arrested for having been involved in Margaery's treason. Before the day is over, a mob of  smallfolk  has formed before the Great Sept to protest Margaery's arrest. Cersei goes to visit Margaery the next day, and tells her there is going to be a trial. She suggests that Margaery can chose for a  trial by battle  if she wants, in which case a knight of the  Kingsguard  is to defend her. Margaery is quick to understand that it would come down to either  Meryn Trant  or  Boros Blount , [N 2]  neither of whom are able to defeat Osney Kettleblack. She scolds Cersei for wanting Tommen all for herself, acknowledging that she knows Cersei wants her dead. Cersei then visits the High Sparrow, who agrees that the Faith is to trial Margaery. However, he next refuses to allow Cersei to take custody of Ser Osney, and reveals that, after further questioning (involving torture), Osney to having slept with Cersei, not Margaery. Cersei is subsequently arrested as well. The mob remains in front of the Great Sept, calling out Margaery's name. [21] 
 When news of his daughter's arrest reaches him, Lord  Mace Tyrell  abandons his siege of Storm's End to march most of his army back to King's Landing. His bannerman, Lord  Randyll Tarly , leaves  Maidenpool  with his own army to give Margaery his aid. [21] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Randyll Tarly  is the first to reach King's Landing. As all the men who stand accused—with the exception of the  Blue Bard , who appears to be half-mad—have denied the charges or recanted, the evidence against Margaery and her cousins is weak. As such, the  High Sparrow  agrees to hand them over to Lord Tarly's custody, who swears that he will return them for the trial. [38]  Although the  stormlands  are under attack by the  Golden Company , Mace Tyrell refuses to leave with his army until Margaery's trial is over and she is declared innocent. [38]  Margaery plans to let the Faith sit in judgement of her. [39]  Mace wishes for King Tommen to declare Margaery innocent, but Lord Regent  Kevan Lannister  argues against the idea, knowing it would mean that the whispers of accusation would follow Margaery forever. Kevan quietly wonders why Mace insists on having his army present when Margaery faces her accusers, if she is as innocent as Mace would have them all believe. [40] 
 
 Quotes by Margaery 
   Natalie Dormer as Margaery as depicted in  Game of Thrones . 
 I know what a burden you bear. You should let me share the load. There must be some things I could do to help you. It would put to rest all this talk that you and I are rivals for the  the king . [20] 
  – Margaery, to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 Your Grace,  this  must be answered  fiercely ! [37] 
  – Margaery, to  Cersei Lannister 
 Quotes about Margaery 
 Ned was not sure what to make of  Renly , with all his friendly ways and easy smiles. A few days past, he had taken Ned aside to show him an exquisite rose gold locklet. Inside was a miniature painted in the vivid  Myrish  style, of a lovely young girl with doe's eyes and a cascade of soft brown hair. [9] 
  – thoughts of  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 The girl is a maid of fourteen, sweet and beautiful and tractable, and Lord  Renly  and Ser  Loras  intend that  Robert  should bed her, wed her, and make a new queen. [14] 
  –  Varys 
 
 
 Stannis:  We both know your wedding was a mummer's farce. A year ago you were scheming to make the girl one of  Robert 's whores. 
 Renly:  A year ago I was scheming to make the girl Robert’s queen. [25] 
  –  Renly Baratheon  and  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 If you had to fall into  a woman's  arms,  my son , why couldn't they have been Margaery Tyrell's? The wealth and power of  Highgarden  could have made all the difference in the fighting yet to come. And perhaps  Grey Wind  would have liked the smell of her as well. [13] 
  - thoughts of  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 Margaery was different, though. Sweet and gentle, yet there was a little of  her grandmother  in her, too. [15] 
  – thoughts of  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Her smile was shy and sweet. A lovely girl, thought Tyrion, and a kinder fate than  my nephew  deserves. [12] 
  - thoughts of  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 So the girl is as clever as she is pretty.  Tommen  could do a deal worse for a queen. [16] 
  – thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Wherever she went, the  smallfolk  fawned on her, and Lady Margaery did all she could to fan their ardor. She was forever giving alms to beggars, buying hot pies off bakers' carts, and reining up to speak to common tradesmen. [20] 
  – thoughts of  Cersei Lannister 
 Family 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
     Luthor   Olenna Redwyne                 Gormon             Garth               Moryn           
                                                                                                                                                                               
 Mace   Alerie Hightower   Janna   Jon Fossoway   Mina   Paxter Redwyne   Garse Flowers   Garrett Flowers   Luthor   Elyn Norridge   Leo "the Lazy"               
                                                                                                                                                                                             
 Willas     Garlan   Leonette Fossoway         Horas Redwyne   Hobber Redwyne   Desmera Redwyne   Lia Serry   Theodore   Olene   Leo Blackbar   Medwick         
                                                                                                                   
     Loras   Renly Baratheon   Margaery     Joffrey Baratheon                   Elinor   Luthor       
                                                                               
                               Tommen Baratheon                                             
                                                                             
     Quentin             Normund                       Victor 
                                                                                               
     Olymer   Lysa Meadows                 Jon Bulwer   Victaria         Leo   Alys Beesbury             
                                                                                                                                                                       
   Raymund     Rickard     Megga           Alysanne Bulwer   Lyonel   Alla   Lucas   Lorent   Leona       
 
 
 
 Behind the Scenes 
 According to  George R. R. Martin , Margaery has similarities with  Anne Boleyn . [41] 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   Despite the fact that House Tyrell had played a large role in the starvation by closing the  Roseroad  off when the war started. 
 
 ↑   Jaime Lannister  is considered unfit to fight in a trial by battle due to the loss of his sword hand. Loras is still mortally injured on  Dragonstone .  Balon Swann  has been sent to Dorne, where  Arys Oakheart  is believed to be, as his death is still unknown to those at court.  Osmund Kettleblack  is not considered an option, as it is his brother who is the accuser. 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10   3.11   3.12   3.13     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   See the  Margaery Tyrell  calculation. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Margaery Tyrell. 
 
 ↑   Natalie - filmography game-of-thrones-2012 
 
 ↑   About season 2.  Slideshow with photo's of characters and the name of the actor on HBO. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5   10.6     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2   12.3   12.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2   14.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 32 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 16 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2   16.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 63 , Davos VI. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑  20.00   20.01   20.02   20.03   20.04   20.05   20.06   20.07   20.08   20.09   20.10     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1   21.2   21.3   21.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑  25.0   25.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  27.0   27.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  31.0   31.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  35.0   35.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑  36.0   36.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 ↑  37.0   37.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑  38.0   38.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 65 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Boskone (Boston, MA; February 17-19) , February 17, 2006 
 
 
 v d e 
Royal consorts in  Westeros Targaryens 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Visenya Targaryen   (1–37) 1 
 Rhaenys Targaryen  (1–10) 
 Alyssa Velaryon  (37–42) 1 
 Ceryse Hightower  (42–45) 
 Alys Harroway  (42–44) 
 Tyanna of Pentos  (42–48) 
 Elinor Costayne  (47–48) 1 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (47–48) 1 
 Jeyne Westerling  (47–48) 
 Alysanne Targaryen  (48–100) 
 Aemma Arryn  (103–106) 
 Alicent Hightower  (106–129) 1 
 Helaena Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Jaehaera Targaryen  (131–133) 
 Daenaera Velaryon  (?–157) 2 
 Daena Targaryen  (161) 3 
 Naerys Targaryen  (172–c. 179) 
 Mariah Martell  (184–209) 2 
 Aelinor Penrose  (209–221) 2 
 Betha Blackwood  (233–259) 2 
 Shaera Targaryen  (259–262) 2 
 Rhaella Targaryen  (262–283) 1 
 Consorts to claimants 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (42–43) 
 Daemon Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Drogo  (298) 
 Hizdahr zo Loraq  (300–present) 
 
 Baratheons 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Cersei Lannister  (283–298) 1 
 Margaery Tyrell  (300–present) 4 
 Consorts to rival kings 
 Selyse Florent  (299–present) 
 Margaery Tyrell  (299) 1 
 
 Independence movements 
 Greyjoys ,  Kings of the Iron Islands 
 Alannys Harlaw  (289, 299) 1 
 Starks ,  Kings in the North 
 Jeyne Westerling  (299) 1 
 
 
 1  Survived as Queen Dowager. 
 2  Unknown whether the Queen outlived her King. 
 3  Marriage was annulled. 
 4  Outlived one king, but subsequently married his successor. 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Margaery_Tyrell&oldid=214692 "  
 Categories :  House Tyrell House Baratheon Characters from the Reach Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Noblewomen Royal consorts   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
