
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Marillion 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Marillion 
 art by kanako91 
 Born 
In  279 AC  or  280 AC [1] Died 
In  300 AC , at the  Eyrie Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Emun Elliott . [2] TV series 
 Season 1 
 Marillion  is a singer. He is handsome, plays the  harp , [3]  and is a tenor. [4]  He is vain about his skills and his good looks.
 
   Emun Elliott as Marillion in the HBO adaptation 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Game of Thrones 
 5   External Links 
 6   Quotes 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Marillion 
 Marillion is handsome. He has a boyish look and is slender. He has smooth skin, sandy hair, and a charming smile. [5] 
 
 History 
 Marillion was in  King's Landing  for the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day . He made a lot of silver with his singing during the tourney, but lost it when he bet on  Jaime Lannister  winning his joust against  Loras Tyrell . [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Marillion meets  Catelyn Stark  and  Rodrik Cassel  at the  crossroads inn . [3]  After Catelyn's capture of  Tyrion Lannister , he rides with them to the  Eyrie . During the ride, the party is attacked by members of the  Vale mountain clans  and though he survives the battle, one of them breaks several of his ribs, his woodharp and four of his fingers on his playing hand. He manages to grab a fine  shadowcat  cloak off one of the dead clansmen. [4]  At the trial of Tyrion, Marillion is present and is told by him to make a ballad about how Tyrion was not allowed to choose his champion in a  trial by battle . [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Marillion stays at the Eyrie and becomes the favorite of  Lysa Tully . [5]  Marillion pressures a number of maids to sleep with him, and two maids and a page are banished during this time for telling "lies" about him. [7]  He also sleeps with  Myranda Royce  who later admits that she was very willing. [8] 
 He is present at the wedding of Lysa Arryn and  Petyr Baelish  at the  Baelish tower . After the bedding he becomes drunk and tries to rape  Sansa Stark .  Lothor Brune , who had been given orders from Petyr to watch Sansa, prevents this and wounds Marillion. [9] 
 After Lysa sees Petyr kissing Sansa at the Eyrie, she has Marillion bring Sansa to her. She blames Sansa and threatens to throw her through the  Moon Door . To prevent them from being heard, Marillion plays the harp and sings. Just as Sansa almost falls, Petyr arrives. He saves Sansa and reassures Lysa. Then he throws Lysa through the Moon Door and calls the guards telling that Marillion killed Lysa. [5] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After he has been arrested Marillion is tortured into confessing that he did kill Lysa and confined to the  sky cells . In return for his confession he is allowed to keep his life but loses his eyes and a few fingers. [7]  During his imprisonment he sings,  [7] :
 
 
 the  Dance of the Dragons 
 of fair  Jonquil  and  her fool 
 of  Jenny of Oldstones  and the  Prince of Dragonflies 
 of betrayals 
 of murders most foul 
 of hanged men 
 of bloody vengeance 
 of grief and sadness 
 The Day They Hanged Black Robin 
 The Mother's Tears 
 The Rains of Castamere 
 Six Sorrows 
 Fallen Leaves 
 Alysanne 
 On a Misty Morn 
 
 Petyr has Marillion repeat his confession in front of  Nestor Royce  and then confines him again to the  sky cells . [7] 
 Sansa later assures  Robert Arryn  that Marillion has died, based on information from Petyr, but Robert insists that he can still hear Marillion singing at night. [10] 
 
 Game of Thrones 
 In  Game of Thrones  Marillion is present when Catelyn captures Tyrion [11]  and accompanies them to the Vale. [12]  By the end of the first season, he is at the court of  Joffrey Baratheon . Marillion has been brought for the king for singing a mocking song about  Robert Baratheon . In it he insinuates that the  Lannisters  are involved in Robert's demise. For this Joffrey sentences him to choose between losing his fingers or his tongue. Marillion does not make a choice and begs for mercy. This is to no avail and his tongue is cut from his mouth by  Ilyn Payne . [13]  In the books, this happens to an unnamed tavern singer. [14] 
 
 External Links 
 Marillion  on the Game of Thrones, TV series wiki.
 
 Quotes 
 If I had eyes I should weep. [7] 
  - Marillion, during his confession
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Marillion  calculation. 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 28 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 31 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 80 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑     Game of Thrones ,  Season 1 , " Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things ". 
 
 ↑     Game of Thrones ,  Season 1 , " The Wolf and the Lion ". 
 
 ↑     Game of Thrones ,  Season 1 , " Fire and Blood ". 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 67 , Sansa VI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Marillion&oldid=220027 "  
 Categories :  Singers Smallfolk House Arryn retainers Characters from Westeros   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
