
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Marq Piper 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Marq Piper  
 
 Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Piper Culture 
 Rivermen Born 
At  Pinkmaiden Castle [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Ser  Marq Piper  is a  knight  of  House Piper  and heir of Lord  Clement Piper . He is good friends with Ser  Edmure Tully . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 
 
 Character 
 Lord  Eddard Stark  and Lady  Catelyn Tully  consider the young Marq to be hot-headed. [2] [3] 
 
 History 
 Ser  Daven Lannister  once beat the elder brother of  Lewys Piper , presumably Marq, in a mêlée. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Marq is one of the nobles that Lord  Hoster Tully  sends to  King's Landing  with the survivors of  Sherrer  to ask the permission of the crown to destroy the raiders who are savaging the  riverlands . [2] 
 After their fathers are defeated in the  battle in the hills below the Golden Tooth , Marq and Ser  Karyl Vance  begin launching raids across the  Red Fork  of the  Trident  to disrupt the  Lannister  supply lines, hampering  Jaime Lannister 's siege of  Riverrun . [5] 
 They continue raids until  Robb Stark  arrives and breaks the siege with the  battle in the Whispering Wood  and the  Battle of the Camps . The loss of the Lannister outriders was thought to be due to Marq, and so it was not realized that the host lead by Robb was approaching Riverrun. [6] 
 Afterward, Marq sits at Robb's war council at Riverrun, where he calls for a march against  Casterly Rock  and also for allying with  Renly Baratheon . [3] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Given leave by his liege lord, Ser  Edmure Tully , Marq leaves Riverrun with his men to defend his  burned lands . [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Marq is one of the seven nobles who launch Lord  Hoster Tully 's funeral boat at Riverrun. [8] 
 Marq is among the rivermen who accompany Edmure to his wedding at the  Twins . [9]  During the wedding feast, he plays a drinking game with Ser  Danwell Frey . Marq joins the group which takes Edmure's bride,  Roslin Frey , from the hall, and  Catelyn Stark  observes him removing Roslin's shoe as part of the  bedding   custom . [10] 
 Traveling through the riverlands,  Arya Stark  and  Sandor Clegane  encounter a  Piper  bowman sworn to Marq. Wounded by a  Bolton  during the  Red Wedding , the bowman is given the gift of mercy by the Hound. [11] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Marq is held by the  Freys  as a hostage at the Twins after the  Red Wedding , to the consternation of his father, Lord  Clement Piper , who believes that his bending his knee to the  Iron Throne  will lead to his son being returned. That does not happen, which enrages Clement, leading him to threaten  Edwyn Frey  at the war council during the  siege of Riverrun . [12]  After Riverrun surrenders, Jaime Lannister informs Edwyn that King  Tommen I Baratheon  requires all captives taken during the Red Wedding, which displeases the Freys. [13] 
 
 Family 
 
                       
         Clement           
                                             
     Marq   Lewys           
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Marq Piper. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 56 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 7 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 65 , Arya XII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Marq_Piper&oldid=220066 "  
 Categories :  House Piper Characters from the Riverlands Knights Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings Hostages of House Frey in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
