
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mathis Rowan 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Mathis Rowan  
 
 Title 
Lord of  Goldengrove Allegiance 
 House Rowan Culture 
 Reach Spouse 
Lady  Bethany Redwyne Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Mathis Rowan  is the Lord of  Goldengrove  and head of  House Rowan . He is married to Lady  Bethany Redwyne  and has three children by her. [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 Mathis is stout, florid, and clean-shaven. [2] [3]  He wears a snowy doublet with a great tree worked upon the breast in gold thread. [4] 
 According to Ser  Kevan Lannister , Mathis is sensible, prudent, well liked, able, and loyal. [5]   Tyrion Lannister  thinks Mathis is gruff, blunt, and to the point. [3] 
 
 History 
 During  Robert's Rebellion , Mathis stayed loyal to King  Aerys II Targaryen . He assisted his liege lord,  Mace Tyrell , during the  siege of Storm's End , which was defended by  Stannis Baratheon . Lord  Eddard Stark  lifted the siege following the  Sack of King's Landing , and Rowan bent the knee to the new king,  Robert I Baratheon . [6] 
 Lord Mathis found  Dareon  in bed with his daughter, who was two years older than the singer. Under the eyes of her father, she claimed rape and Dareon was sent to the  Wall  to join the  Night's Watch . Dareon insists the relationship was consensual. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 At the outset of the  War of the Five Kings , Mathis joins his liege lord,  Mace Tyrell , in declaring for King  Renly Baratheon . After the  melee at Bitterbridge  where  Brienne of Tarth  wins a spot in the  Rainbow Guard , Mathis and several other nobles are with Renly when he meets with  Catelyn Stark , who has come as an envoy for her son,  Robb Stark , the  King in the North . Mathis is dismayed to learn Ser  Jaime Lannister  was not executed after being captured by Robb's army in the  Whispering Wood . He later sits next to Catelyn during a feast at  Bitterbridge . [2] 
 After the parley with King  Stannis Baratheon  beneath the walls of  Storm's End , Mathis advises Renly to leave Stannis to besiege the formidable Storm's End and instead go on to take  King's Landing . His opinion is overruled, however, as Renly decides to deal with Stannis before the  Lannisters . Mathis is placed in command of the center in the coming battle with Stannis's forces. [8]  Shortly before dawn, Mathis and Lord  Randyll Tarly  make final battle preparations with Renly. Mathis suggests attacking at once, but Renly refuses since he had agreed with Stannis to begin the battle at dawn. After receiving their final orders from Renly, Mathis and Randyll depart to ready their soldiers. Before the battle can take place, however,  Renly is assassinated . [6] 
 Mathis is among the lords who, like Lord Tyrell, do not side with Stannis. [9]  He is one of the leaders of the Reach that joins Lord  Tywin Lannister  at the headwaters of the  Blackwater Rush , marching alongside him until  Tumbler's Falls , where Mace waits with an even larger force. They embark on barges and sail to just outside  King's Landing , where they take Stannis's army in the rear during the  Battle of the Blackwater . [10]  As a hero of the Blackwater, Lord Rowan is rewarded by King  Joffrey I Baratheon  in the throne room. [4] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Mathis attends a  small council  meeting after the  Battle of the Blackwater . Queen  Cersei Lannister , Joffrey's mother, attempts to influence Rowan by jests and smiles. Tywin Lannister, Joffrey's grandfather and the  Hand of the King , grants lesser tracts of land to the Rowans. Mathis appears upset when Tywin mentions the unresolved deaths of  Elia Martell  and her children in the  Sack of King's Landing . [3] 
 During the wedding feast of  Sansa Stark  and  Tyrion Lannister , Mathis dances with Cersei and Sansa. [11] 
 As a guest at Joffrey's  royal wedding , Mathis gives the king a red silk  tourney  pavilion as a wedding gift. [12] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the death of the Hand of the King, Lord Tywin, Ser  Kevan Lannister  mentions Lord Mathis as a possibility to fill the vacant position. [5]  Cersei considers Mathis to be one of Mace's cronies, [13]  however, and she chooses the tractable Ser  Harys Swyft  as Hand and removes Mathis from the council.
 Mathis rides with Lord Tyrell to  Storm's End , still held by Stannis's man, Ser  Gilbert Farring . [14]  When Mace hears that his daughter  Margaery  has been arrested by the  High Sparrow , he returns to the capital and leaves Lord Rowan in command of  the siege . Ser  Jaime Lannister  thinks Mathis would make an able Hand of the King. [15] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 The  Golden Company  lands in the  stormlands  and quickly seizes several castles, gaining a beachhead for  Aegon VI Targaryen . Their next target is Storm's End, [16]  where Mathis still holds the command of a token force laying siege to the castle. [17] 
 
 Quotes 
 Mathis : They are all so young. 
 Catelyn : War will make them old, as it did us. I pity them. 
 Mathis : Why? Look at them. They're young and strong, full of life and laughter. And lust, aye, more lust than they know what to do with. There will be many a  bastard  bred this night, I promise you. Why pity? 
 
 Catelyn : Because it will not last. Because they are the knights of summer, and winter is coming. [2] 
  - Mathis and  Catelyn Stark 
 Family 
 
       Mathis   Bethany Redwyne         
                                                                                   
       Unknown Child   Unknown Child   Unknown Girl   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 26 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 59 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Mathis Rowan. 
 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mathis_Rowan&oldid=211874 "  
 Categories :  House Rowan Characters from the Reach Members of the small council Nobles Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Supporters of Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
