
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Meera Reed 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Meera Reed  
 Meera and  Jojen Reed  by Amok© 
 Allegiance 
 House Reed Culture 
 crannogmen Born 
In  283 AC [1] , at  Greywater Watch [2] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Ellie Kendrick TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Meera Reed  is a member of  House Reed . She is Lord  Howland Reed 's daughter and oldest child; her younger brother is  Jojen Reed . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by Ellie Kendrick.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Clash of Kings 
 2.2   A Storm of Swords 
 2.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Meera 
 4   Quotes about Meera 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Meera Reed 
 As is typical of  crannogmen , Meera is short and slim. [3]  She has long brown hair knotted behind her head, [3]  green eyes, [4]  and small breasts. [3] [4] 
 Meera has a cheerful disposition, in contrast to her more sullen brother,  Jojen , [4]  and she is respectful [5]  and protective. [6] [7] 
 Meera wears worn lambskin breeches and a sleeveless jerkin with bronze scales. [3]  She wields a woven net, a long bronze knife, a three-pronged frog spear, a rusted iron greathelm, and a round leathern shield. [3]  Meera is a fine hunter and fisher, able to easily spear fish. [8]  She has been taught by her father, Lord  Howland Reed , to fight with net and spear. [5]  The young woman is agile and quick to alert. [9] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Meera in the  crypt of Winterfell  by Tiziano Baracchi © Fantasy Flight Games 
 In the middle of the  harvest feast  at  Winterfell , Meera and her brother,  Jojen , arrive to pledge  House Reed 's support to Winterfell and the new  King in the North ,  Robb Stark , after the death of his father, Lord  Eddard Stark . The siblings recite their oath to Robb's younger brother,  Bran Stark , and Bran later dreams of the Reeds meeting  Summer  and  Shaggydog , the  direwolves  of Bran and his brother  Rickon , in the  godswood of Winterfell . [3] 
 Later, Meera defeats Summer using a net and frog spear. Bran claims that Summer won, but Jojen points out that Summer is tangled up in the net and cannot escape. Bran learns Meera was taught by her father, Lord  Howland Reed , instead of a master-at-arms, and she invites him to visit  Greywater Watch . [5] 
 Bran tells Meera and Jojen about his wolf dreams and the  three-eyed crow , while Jojen reveals he has dreamed the sea will come to Winterfell. When Bran tells them that Maester  Luwin  thinks that it should be possible to change the dreams, Meera agrees. She gets angry with her brother when Jojen tells them that what he sees always comes true. Jojen reveals that he has seen the bodies of Bran and Rickon at the feet of the man they call  Reek , who is skinning off their faces with a knife. Meera states that she could go down to the dungeons and kill Reek, but Jojen tells her she will not succeed; the jailers would stop her and would not believe her if she tried to explain. [10] 
 After the  capture of Winterfell  by the  ironborn , the Reed siblings and Bran are held hostage by  Theon Greyjoy , who calls himself  Prince of Winterfell . [6]  Meera protects Rickon when  Stygg  kills  Mikken , [6]  and Theon ponders if the girl is still a maiden. [11]  After  Osha ,  Hodor , the direwolves, and the Reed and Stark siblings vanish from the castle, Theon and Reek hunt for them in the  wolfswood  to no avail. [11] 
 Meera and her companions have secretly hid in the  crypt of Winterfell , however, and they survive the  sack of Winterfell  when the castle is attacked by  Ramsay Snow . [12] [7]  Before leaving, Meera takes the sword from the tomb of Lord  Rickard Stark . In the godswood, the dying Luwin advises Osha to split the Stark children up to make them harder to find. Osha decides to take Rickon with her, while Jojen says that he and Meera will take Bran. After they separate, Jojen tells the others that their road is north. [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Jojen Reed  and Meera cooking dinner by mustamirri © 
 Meera has been hunting for the group as they move north and is their main food provider, mainly catching fish and frogs. They camp in a place they call  Tumbledown Tower , but Jojen tells them that they need to move on. Meera eventually agrees with Jojen, but gives the choice to Bran, saying he is their prince and they will do what he tells them to do. Bran finally decides to go north. [4]  Bran often watches as Meera spears fish, admiring her speed and precision. As they travel on, food becomes harder to find, even for Summer. Jojen insists that they keep away from roads because there will encounter travelers who will spread tales about a giant, a cripple boy, and a wolf. [4] 
 When the weather turns bad in the  northern mountains , Summer finds them a cave where a  Liddle  shares his food and warns that the  kingsroad  has become more dangerous. In the morning the man is gone, but he left some food for them. [8]  Meera comforts Bran when the boy worries that  Old Nan  has been killed. As they move on, Bran tells the Reeds that both he and Hodor like stories about knights. Meera then tells a story about the  Knight of the Laughing Tree  and a  crannogman , likely  Howland Reed , at  a great tourney  in the year of the false spring. [8] 
 They eventually take refuge from a storm at the holdfast of  Queenscrown  in the  New Gift , but they detect men in the village, one of whom turns out to be  Jon Snow  traveling with  wildlings . As a  warg , Bran enters Summer and attacks the wildlings going after Jon. The direwolf kills three of them, but takes an arrow to the shoulder. [13] [14]  The group waits until the next day to leave after the wildlings are gone. Summer, who had slunk off to nurse his wounds, finally returns, and Meera removes the arrow and treats the wound. [9] 
 They arrive at the  Nightfort , the castle in Jojen's green dream. The surefooted Meera climbs to the top of the  Wall  to get a look at the other side while the boys search the buildings. They decide to sleep that night in the kitchen because it would provide some protection. When they hear something coming from a well, Meera traps it in her net and sticks him with her frog spear. When the fire is stoked up they see a girl,  Gilly , with  a baby  and  Samwell Tarly . Sam tells him that they came through the Black Gate, a passage as old as the Wall. Sam will have to take them back because only a man sworn to the Night's Watch can open the gate. Sam explains his group was aided by  Coldhands , who was dressed in the black of the Night's Watch, but pale. Meera, Jojen, Hodor and Bran go through the Black Gate. [9] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Meera Reed by Elia Fernandez© 
 Coldhands  escorts Meera's group  beyond the Wall , and they are take shelter in an abandoned  wildling  village while Coldhands deals with a threat. The group discusses the nature of Coldhands, deciding that he is not alive. Meera does not trust him. [15]  Meera protects her weakened brother Jojen from the cold. [15] 
 When the group is ambushed by  wights  near the entrance of the  cave of the three-eyed crow , Meera jabs at them with her spear to keep them away. Bran takes control of Hodor and attacks the wights, and Meera defends the giant man when a wight claws at him.  Leaf , one of the  children of the forest , fends off the wights, allowing Hodor to carry Jojen and Meera to rescue Bran's crippled body. Inside the cave, the group meet the remaining children and the  three-eyed crow . [16] 
 Bran learns about being a  greenseer  from the three-eyed crow, who calls himself  Brynden . [17]  Bran and Meera make up names for the children they meet. Jojen falls into a resigned depression, and a fretting Meera struggles to keep their spirits up. [17]  Bran thinks he might be falling in love with Meera, [16]  and he considers entering Hodor's mind so he could comfort her. [17] 
 
 Quotes by Meera 
 Meera : Up and down, then down and up. Then up and down again. I hate  these stupid mountains  of yours, Prince Bran. Bran : Yesterday you said you loved them. Meera : Oh, I do.  My lord father  told me about mountains, but I never saw one till now. I love them more than I can say. Bran : But you just said you hated them. Meera : Why can't it be both? [8] —Meera and  Bran Stark 
 
 
 
 Remember  Old Nan 's stories, Bran. Remember the way she told them, the sound of her voice. So long as you do that, part of her will always be alive in you. [8] —Meera to  Bran Stark 
 
 Quotes about Meera 
   Ellie Kendrick as Meera in  Game of Thrones 
 It was hard to sulk with Meera. She was much more cheerful than her brother, and always seemed to know how to make him smile. Nothing ever scared her or made her angry. Well, except  Jojen , sometimes ... Jojen Reed could scare most anyone. [4] —thoughts of  Bran Stark 
 
 
 
 The woods  were full of frozen streams and cold black lakes, and Meera was as good a fisher with her three-pronged frog spear as most men were with hook and line. [15] —thoughts of  Bran Stark 
 
 Family 
 
     Howland   Jyana       
                                         
     Meera   Jojen   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Meera Reed  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Meera Reed. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 21 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 9 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 28 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 69 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 56 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 40 , Bran III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 41 , Jon V. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 13 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 34 , Bran III. 
 
 
 
   
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire .  
The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of Minor houses in A Song of Ice and Fire.  
As with the A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  GNU Free Documentation License .
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Meera_Reed&oldid=218228 "  
 Categories :  House Reed Characters from the North Crannogmen Hostages of House Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
