
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Meryn Trant 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Meryn Trant  
 Ser Meryn Trant - © Fantasy Flight Games. 
 Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Trant Kingsguard Culture 
 Stormlands Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Ian Beattie TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5 
 Ser  Meryn Trant  is a  knight  of  House Trant . He is a member of King  Robert I Baratheon 's  Kingsguard . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by  Ian Beattie .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Meryn 
 4   Quotes about Meryn 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Meryn Trant 
 Meryn has droopy eyes and a red beard. [1]  As a Kingsguard knight, his armor consists of a shirt of enameled scales chased with gold, a tall helm with a golden sunburst crest, greaves and gorget and gauntlets and boots of gleaming plate, a heavy wool cloak clasped with a golden lion. [2] 
 Jaime Lannister  considers Meryn sly and cruel. [3]   Varys  considers him loyal to  Cersei Lannister . [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Ian Beattie  as Meryn Trant in  Game of Thrones . 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Meryn Trant accompanies King  Robert I Baratheon  to  Winterfell  to name his new  Hand of the King , Lord  Eddard Stark . [1] 
 Meryn participates in the  Hand's tourney  at  King's Landing , defeating  Harwin . [5]  He is defeated in the tourney by Ser  Loras Tyrell . [4] 
 Meryn is sent to apprehend  Arya Stark  when Eddard is arrested, but is prevented from doing so by  Syrio Forel . [6]  King  Joffrey I Baratheon  uses him to beat  Sansa Stark  into obedience. [2]  He is present in the throne room when Ser  Barristan Selmy  is dismissed, and laughs at his former sworn brother's shame. [7] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Ser Meryn rides in the joust during the  tourney on King Joffrey's name day . There he breaks two lances with Ser  Hobber Redwyne , unhorsing him on the second pass. [8]  Meryn survives the  riot of King's Landing , when the royal procession is attacked on its return to the  Red Keep  after seeing Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  off to  Dorne . [9] 
 Meryn guards King Joffrey during the  Battle of the Blackwater . [10]  After the battle, Ser Meryn and the other remaining Kingsguard spend hours  knighting  more than six hundred men. [11] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Ser Meryn is ordered by Queen  Cersei Lannister  to bring  Sansa Stark  to the sept to marry  Tyrion Lannister . [12]  He is later encountered guarding the  Red Keep  by Ser  Jaime Lannister ,  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , during the latter's return to  King's Landing , and Meryn is criticised for failing to protect two monarchs in Jaime's absence. [13] 
 During the trial of Tyrion for the  death of King Joffrey , Ser Meryn recounts the story of Tyrion beating Joffrey after the riot and tells the judges of other episodes when Tyrion threatened the life of the king. [14] 
 Jaime berates Meryn for his willingness to beat Sansa on Joffrey's orders, pointing out that nowhere in the  White Book  do the Kingsguard swear to beat women and children. When Meryn protests that the Kingsguard are sworn to obey, Jaime counters that their first role is to protect the king, which includes protecting the monarch from themselves, and that he expects the knight to use common sense when his king gives him a questionable command. [3] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Ser Meryn guards the apartments of the  Hand of the King  after the body of Lord  Tywin Lannister  is found until the arrival of Queen Cersei. [15] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Ser Meryn is present at the Red Keep when Cersei completes her  walk of penance . [16]  He guards the Hand of the King's apartments in  Maegor's Holdfast  on the night of Ser  Kevan Lannister 's death. [17] 
 
 Quotes by Meryn 
 Sansa:  I shall do whatever  His Grace  commands. 
 Meryn:  As I do. 
 
 Sansa:  Yes ... but you are no  true knight , Ser Meryn. [2] 
  –  Sansa Stark  to Meryn
 Quotes about Meryn 
 You are slow for a  knight . [6] 
  –  Syrio Forel  to Meryn
 
 
 He did not hate her, Sansa realized; neither did he love her. He felt nothing for her at all. She was only a ... a  thing  to him. [2] 
  – thoughts of  Sansa Stark 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 67 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 50 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 65 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 
 v d e 
 Kingsguard  during  A Song of Ice and Fire Current 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister 
 Ser  Meryn Trant 
 Ser  Boros Blount 
 Ser  Balon Swann 
 Ser  Osmund Kettleblack 
 Ser  Loras Tyrell 
 Ser  Robert Strong 
 Former 
 Ser  Arys Oakheart 
 Ser  Barristan Selmy 
 Ser  Mandon Moore 
 Ser  Preston Greenfield 
 Sandor Clegane 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Meryn_Trant&oldid=206263 "  
 Categories :  House Trant Characters from the Stormlands Members of the Kingsguard Nobles Knights Followers and collaborators of Cersei Lannister Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
