
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mikken 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Mikken 
 Art by TheMico 
 Allegiance 
 House Stark Culture 
 Northmen Died 
In  299 AC , at  Winterfell Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Boyd Rankin TV series 
 Season 1 
 Mikken  is the blacksmith at  Winterfell . [1]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by Boyd Rankin.
 
   Boyd Rankin as Mikken in the HBO adaptation 
 Contents 
 
 1   Recent Events 
 
 1.1   A Game of Thrones 
 1.2   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 2   References 
 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Mikken crafts for  Jon Snow  the sword  Needle , which Jon gifts to  Arya Stark . [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 In order for  Bran Stark  to get around his room, Mikken installs metal bars along the walls so Bran can pull himself around. [3]   Jojen Reed  foresees the death of Mikken in his green dreams, but Mikken laughs it off when Bran tells him. [4]  When  Theon Greyjoy   captures Winterfell , Mikken angrily refuses to bend the knee and is slain by  Stygg , an ironborn raider in Theon's service. [5] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 8 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 10 , Jon II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 4 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mikken&oldid=208720 "  
 Categories :  Blacksmiths Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the North Executions House Stark retainers Smallfolk   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
