
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Missandei 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Missandei 
 Missandei, by Drazenka Kimpel © FFG 
 Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Culture 
 Naathi Born 
In  288 AC  or  289 AC [1] , at  Naath Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 Nathalie Emmanuel TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Missandei  is a  Naathi  scribe in service to  Kraznys mo Nakloz , one of the  Good Masters  of  Astapor . In the television adaptation,  Game of Thrones , she is portrayed by  Nathalie Emmanuel .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Storm of Swords 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Missandei 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Missandei 
 Missandei has a round flat face, dusky skin, and eyes like molten gold. [2] [3]  Although only ten, [4] [2]  she is very strong-willed and intelligent. [5]  She has a sweet, strong voice. [6]  Missandei was taught to refer to herself as "this one" instead of using first-person pronouns, a habit she tries to overcome once she is freed from slavery. [5] 
 
 History 
 Missandei and her brothers were born on the island of  Naath . They were eventually captured by raiders from the  Basilisk Isles , and sold into  slavery  in  Astapor . Three of her brothers became  Unsullied , but one was killed in training, and only  Marselen  and  Mossador  remain. [7]  She remembers Mossador teaching her to climb trees. [8]  Missandei had a noticeable gift, easily learning languages. Consequently, the  Good Masters  chose to train her as a scribe. [8] 
 Missandei has been trained to speak the  Common Tongue  of  Westeros ,  High Valyrian , and bastard Valyrian. [2] [7]  She has some knowledge of  Ghiscari . [9] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Daenerys and Missandei - by Enife © 
 Missandei is a slave interpreter and scribe for  Kraznys mo Nakloz , when  Daenerys Targaryen  comes to inspect the  Unsullied  in  Astapor . She leaves untranslated several of his insults, and edits some of his words to sound more polite and pleasant, leaving out entirely his sexual proposals. [2] 
 After Daenerys strikes a bargain with the  Good Masters  of Astapor concerning payment for the Unsullied, Kraznys gives Missandei to Daenerys as an interpreter to give them commands until the Unsullied have learned Daenerys's language. Missandei reveals no feelings concerning the decision. [7]  Both the Good Masters and Missandei are under the impression that Daenerys can only converse in the  Common Tongue ; therefore Missandei is surprised when Daenerys, in  High Valyrian , asks her name in order to proclaim her free. As a freedwoman, Missandei is offered employment by Daenerys as a handmaiden and interpreter, to be kept close by her side until such time as she chooses to leave. Missandei accepts, saying she has nowhere else to go. As for the fear of danger and death, Missandei responds with the phrase " Valar morghulis ". Missandei explains to Daenerys basic information on the Unsullied, and she reveals that three of them were her brothers once. [7] 
 At the exchange, Kraznys still gives orders to Missandei, despite no longer owning her. Missandei leaves some of his phrases untranslated, such as "whore of Westeros". As the deal concludes, Missandei witnesses the  fall of Astapor . [7] 
 During the initial conflict with  Yunkai , Missandei explains to Daenerys that the Yunkai'i speak a Valyrian dialect mutually intelligible to that of Astapor. [9]  The night before the  battle of Yunkai , Dany is too restless to sleep. Missandei offers to sing her a lullaby of the Peaceful People of  Naath , but is turned down. [9]  After a three-day siege of Yunkai, the Wise Masters release a large number of slaves to Daenerys. Missandei explains to them that they owe their freedom to Daenerys. She then translates their new term for Daenerys,  Mhysa , which is  Ghiscari  for "Mother". [9] 
 During the  siege of Meereen ,  Strong Belwas  wins a duel against  Oznak zo Pahl , but suffers a wound. Missandei a healer, a Yunkish freedman "renowned for his skill in the healing arts". [10]  Dany later calls for Missandei to have  the Silver  and the girl's own horse saddled, in preparation for a visit to the camps. Missandei offers to call the  bloodriders  to serve as guards, but Daenerys chooses " Arstan Whitebeard " instead. When  Mero  attempts to assassinate Daenerys, Missandei calls for help. "Arstan" is able to wound Mero and save Daenerys and Missandei pulls the queen back on her feet. A number of freedmen, likely responding to Missandei's calls, then tear Mero apart. [10] 
 While contemplating gods, Daenerys recalled Missandei's narrative concerning the  Lord of Harmony , and later recalled other details concerning  Naath  told by Missandei. She notes growing very fond of the girl. [5]  With Meereen fallen, Daenerys chooses the  Great Pyramid  as her new seat. Missandei,  Irri , and  Jhiqui  move to the royal apartments with her, with Missandei sleeping in her own bed. [5]  Daenerys promises Missandei to take her "home" to Naath one day, but Missandei replies that she is content to stay with the Targaryen. [5]  While contemplating her various allies' and supporters' reliability, Daenerys noted fearing betrayal by all of them. [5] 
 When Daenerys decides to bury the corpses of Meereen, Missandei offers advice, saying the Ghiscari have their honored dead interred in crypts beneath their manses. She suggested boiling the bones clean, and returning them to their kin for burial as an act of kindness. [5]  Missandei attended the initial meeting of Daenerys with  Ghael , the envoy of King  Cleon  of Astapor. Ghael details Cleon's marriage proposal to Daenerys and his promise to give her many strong sons. When Missandei asks about Cleon's sons, Ghael is forced to admit that Cleon only fathered daughters in his previous wedding. [5] 
 One night Missandei finds Daenerys in the terrace garden. Dany has the girl promise to never lie to her, to never betray her. The two watched the sunrise together, holding hands. [5]  When Daenerys berates herself for bringing "death and ruin" to  Slaver's Bay , Missandei reminds her that she had brought freedom as well. [5] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Missandei, by Elia Fernandez © 
 Missandei takes on the role of herald for  Daenerys Targaryen . [6]   [11]  At night, Missandei wakes her to inform her that  Stalwart Shield  has been murdered. During the day, Missandei announces the entry of Daenerys to the hall. She uses the same opening line every day: [6] 
 
 All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the  Andals  and the  Rhoynar  and the  First Men ,  Khaleesi  of [the] Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles, and Mother of  Dragons . [6] 
 
 Missandei is distraught when  Mossador , one of her brothers, is killed by the  Sons of the Harpy . [8]  Before falling asleep one night, Missandei shares some of her memories of Mossador with Dany. The queen again offers Missandei a chance to return to Naath, but she replies that at Naath she would be afraid, easy prey for slavers. She feels safe with the Targaryen, calling her "mother" in a whisper and hugging her tight, and Dany kisses her goodnight. [8]  That night Daenerys has a vision of  Quaithe , but Missandei finds her at the pool, apparently talking to nobody at all. This makes Dany wonder whether Quaithe was actually there. [8] 
 When  Galazza Galare , the  Green Grace , arrives at the Great Pyramid escorted by a dozen  White Graces , Daenerys tasks Missandei with having the girls fed and entertained. [12] 
 Following a visit to the camps of refugees outside Meereen, Daenerys invites Missandei to join her in the water. While swimming, the girl claims to have heard strange sounds in the night: someone scratching at the wall's old, crumbling bricks. She believes the Astapori are trying to enter.  Irri  and  Jhiqui  claim to have heard nothing that night. Daenerys dismisses the sounds as mere dreams. [13]   Viserion  is later discovered to have used his flame and claws to carve a hole in the walls. [14] 
 Two nights prior to her wedding, Daenerys has a sexual encounter with  Daario Naharis . In the morning, Missandei asks about her health, having overheard the sounds of the lovemaking, but having misunderstood their meaning: [3] 
 
 In the black of night this one heard you scream. [3] 
 
 At dawn on Daenerys's wedding day, Missandei insists that the queen should have a simple, full breakfast of goat cheese, olives, and raisins. She points out that Daenerys needs her strength, and mere  wine  is not enough. She also points out that Dany is "such a tiny thing". She understands that Dany has second thoughts about the wedding, suggesting that it is not too late to cancel the wedding. Missandei insists that Dany does not love Hizdahr and could choose another husband, but Dany responds that a queen marries for duty, not love. [3]  Missandei reports that both  Reznak mo Reznak  and  Skahaz mo Kandaq  wish to escort the queen to the  Temple of the Graces , as part of her marriage procession. Dany insists on riding  the Silver  to the Temple, until Missandei reminds her that "you cannot ride in a  tokar ". Missandei arranges a sedan chair for her. [3]  Missandei has turned eleven by the time Daenerys marries  Hizdahr zo Loraq .
 Following the wedding, Daenerys has a disappointing consummation with Hizdahr. Missandei does her best to comfort Daenerys, sharing her memories with Dany. She is still talking when the queen falls asleep. [15] 
 
   Ser Barristan comes to understand why Daenerys is so fond of Missandei - by Sir-Heartsalot © 
 Missandei washes Daenerys's hair prior to visiting the  fighting pits , their long awaited re-opening. When Daenerys claims that half of Meereen would be there to see her, Missandei insists that the spectators only want to see men bleeding and dying. Missandei later reports that  Quentyn Martell  and his  Dornishmen  are expecting an audience. [16] 
 When Daenerys disappears on  Drogon 's back, her consort Hizdahr takes full control of  Meereen . He has Missandei replaced as herald, citing that it is undignified for a king to use a child or a former slave as a herald. [16] [11]   Irri  and  Jhiqui  move out of the royal apartments, leaving Meereen with most of Daenerys's  Dothraki   khalasar . The  khalasar  has set out to search the  Dothraki sea  for their missing queen. Hizhar chooses to establish his own suite of rooms, and Daenerys's  cupbearers  move with him. This leaves Missandei the only occupant of the royal apartments, described by Ser  Barristan Selmy  as a "forlorn little ghost". [11] 
 Barristan continues sharing the apex of the  Great Pyramid  with Missandei, having his own cell by the royal apartments. [11] [17]  Missandei assures him that Daenerys would not leave without them. She reveals that Skahaz, the former leader of the  Brazen Beasts , has asked for a secret meeting with Barristan, who send his own reply through the former herald. [11] 
 Before his  coup d'etat  against Hizhahr, Barristan warns Missandei to not leave the queen's chambers for any reason that night. [18]  He deposes Hizdahr and is proclaimed  Queen's Hand , ruling in the name of the missing Daenerys. He arranges for  Quentyn Martell , mortally burned by  Rhaegal , to be transferred to the bed of Daenerys. Missandei takes care of the wounded man for three days, sitting at his bedside night and day and offering him water and  milk of the poppy . Barristan tries to arrange some assistance for her efforts, but the cupbearers fear the sight of the burned Dornishman, and the  Blue Graces  do not reply to his summons. Missandei reports the death of Quentyn just before the dawn. She is certain that the " Dornish  gods" took him home and that Quentyn smiled at death, finally beyond pain. [14] [19] 
 Missandei aids Ser Barristan in taking control of the court of Meereen. He uses one of her ideas in negotiations with the enemy, offering each man's weight in gold ransom for the release of the hostages ( Daario Naharis ,  Hero ,  Jhogo ). While the Wise Masters neither want nor need the gold, their mercenaries are likely to support the deal, creating division in the enemy ranks. Barristan finds Missandei's strategy reminiscent of both  Petyr Baelish  (whose plans included bribes) and  Varys  (whose plans included fostering division in the enemy ranks). [19] 
 
 Quotes about Missandei 
 The little scribe with the big golden eyes was wise beyond her years. She is brave as well. She had to be, to survive the life she's lived. [5] —thoughts of  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 She relied so much on the little scribe that she oft forgot that Missandei had only turned eleven. [3] —thoughts of  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 Eleven years of age, yet Missandei is as clever as half the men at this table and wiser than all of them. [19] —thoughts of  Barristan Selmy , comparing Missandei to the  ruling council of Meereen 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Missandei  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  5.00   5.01   5.02   5.03   5.04   5.05   5.06   5.07   5.08   5.09   5.10     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3   11.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 68 , The Dragontamer. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 50 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 
 
   
 Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Missandei&oldid=216444 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Naath Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Scribes Translators Slaves and freedmen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
