
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Moqorro 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Moqorro  
 Moqorro, by  Elena María Vacas 
 Alias 
Black Flame Title 
 Slave of R'hllor Allegiance 
 R'hllor Born 
At  Volantis Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Moqorro  is a red priest in service to the faith of  R'hllor . [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Moqorro 
 Moqorro's skin is black as pitch. He is over six feet tall, with a belly like a boulder. A tangle of pure white hair grows from his face like a mane of a lion. According to  Tyrion Lannister  he has yellow and orange flame tattoos inked across his cheeks and forehead. [1]  According to  Victarion Greyjoy  Moqorro's flame tattoos are red-and-orange. [2]  He wears scarlet robes with sleeves, collar, and hems embroidered with orange satin flames. He carries an iron staff as tall as he is, with a dragon's head that spits crackling green flame when brought down. [1] [3]  He speaks the  Common Tongue  well, with only a hint of accent. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Moqorro is a red priest of the  R'hllor  faith who is sent by High Priest  Benerro  to offer guidance and help to  Daenerys Targaryen .
 Like  Melisandre , Moqorro can see the future in the flames, though his predictions are more accurate. He joins the crew of the ship  Selaesori Qhoran  heading to  Qarth , although according to him he knew the ship would not reach Qarth but would lead him to  Slaver's Bay . Moqorro wishes to see  Daenerys Targaryen , and when  Jorah Mormont  learns of this, he books passage on the ship so he can take his prisoner,  Tyrion Lannister , to Daenerys. However, the ship is hit by a great storm and later captured by slavers, which Moqorro had foreseen as the reason the ship would never reach Qarth. Moqorro is lost overboard during the storm. [4] 
 Moqorro is discovered clinging to wreckage out to sea ten days later by the  Iron Fleet  commanded by  Victarion Greyjoy . The crew wants him put to death, but Moqorro is unafraid and calm, which further unnerves the crew. Moqorro tells to Victarion he knows of the  ironborn  quest to seek the dragon queen, and that Victarion will die from his wounded hand without Moqorro's help.
 Using magic, Moqorro manages to cure Victarion's wound and to aid Victarion in his quest. He has Victarion kill the ship's  maester ,  Kerwin , to bring good winds, just as Melisandre once did when she had  Stannis Baratheon  burn  Alester Florent  to grant his fleet favourable winds to  Eastwatch . [3] 
 Since Moqorro's red garb was ruined in the sea, Victarion has  Tom Tidewood  make Moqorro new robes from the black and gold of the  Greyjoy  sails. [2]  Victarion's crew live in great fear of Moqorro and among them he is known as the "Black Flame". This name is given to him by  Steffar Stammerer , who cannot pronounce Moqorro's name properly.
 Moqorro studies the glyphs on the  dragon horn , and tells Victarion he must claim it with blood if he wishes to bind  dragons  to his will. [2] 
 
 Quotes 
 Dragons old and young, true and false, bright and dark. And you. A small man with a big shadow, snarling in the midst of it all. [1] 
  – Moqorro, to  Tyrion Lannister .
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 33 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 63 , Victarion I. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 56 , The Iron Suitor. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 40 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Moqorro&oldid=208924 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Volantis Followers of Victarion Greyjoy Red priests Slaves and freedmen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
