
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mord 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Mord 
 by Paolo Puggioni. Green Ronin Publishing © 
 Allegiance 
 House Arryn Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (Appears) A Clash of Kings  (Mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (Mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (Appears) A Dance with Dragons  (Mentioned) 
 Played by 
Ciaran Birmingham TV series 
 Season 1 
 Mord  is a gaoler of  House Arryn , in charge of the upkeep and maintenance of the sky cells of the  Eyrie . In the  TV series  he is played by Ciaran Bermingham. [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   Quotes about Mord 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Mord 
 Mord is a large man, slow-witted brute, who's fond of tormenting the prisoners, telling them how they are going to fall out of the cells to their deaths. He has small, dark eyes, rotting brown teeth and the left side of his face has a scar from where an axe cut off his ear and part of his cheek. He has a large belly and thick, stubby-fingered hands. [2]  He is about twenty stone of pallid white flesh. His clothes fit poorly and have a rank, ripe smell. [3] 
 After Tyrion pays Mord he uses at least some of the gold to cap his teeth. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 When  Tyrion Lannister  was brought up to the Eyrie, he was thrown in one of the  Sky Cells , where Mord was his guard. Mord takes Tyrion's magnificent  shadowskin  cloak. Mord routinely brutalized him, until one day Tyrion bribed him with the promise of gold if only Mord would tell  Lady Arryn  that Tyrion would confess his crimes. [2]  After his  champion  won the trial, Tyrion paid Mord and offered another reward if he would ever come to  Casterly Rock . Unknown to Mord, Tyrion was thinking about repaying his treatment by Mord in kind. [4] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 When we see Mord again, he has filled his teeth with the gold Tyrion paid him. Lord  Petyr Baelish  uses Mord to convince  Marillion , through painful means and exposure in the sky cells, to tell Lord  Nestor Royce  what Lord  Petyr Baelish  wanted Marillion to tell him. [3] 
 Mord was one of the last to leave the  Eyrie  and descend to the  Gates of the Moon , having the job of killing the oxen before he left. [5] 
 
 Quotes about Mord 
 [H]e had the look of a man who had often been tricked."  -  Tyrion Lannister   [2] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   Cast of Game of Thrones on IMDB 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 42 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mord&oldid=208725 "  
 Categories :  Smallfolk Characters from the Vale House Arryn retainers Gaolers   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
