
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mya Stone 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Mya Stone 
 Mya Stone, by Heliotropa © 
 Allegiance 
 House Royce of the Gates of the Moon Born 
In  279 AC  or  280 AC [1] , at The  Vale of Arryn Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (appears) 
 Mya Stone  is a young woman serving  House Royce of the Gates of the Moon . She is one of King  Robert I Baratheon 's  bastards . Mya serves as a guide on the treacherous rocky climb from the  Vale  to the  Eyrie , leading trains of mules, such as  Whitey . [2]  She also transports foodstuffs from the foot of the  Giant's Lance  to the Eyrie. [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Mya 
 5   Quotes about Mya 
 6   Family Tree 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Mya Stone 
 Mya is a tall, strapping young woman, with coal-black hair cut short and deep blue eyes. [2]  Her eyes are said to be her best feature. Mya is said to have a mirthful, lusty personality. She tends to dress in a masculine manner, eschewing dresses for leather. She is seventeen or eighteen years old. [4] 
 
 History 
 Young  Robert Baratheon , Lord of  Storm's End , fathered Mya, his first child, on a commoner [5]  while he and  Eddard Stark  were being fostered in the  Vale of Arryn  at the court of  Jon Arryn , Lord of the  Eyrie . [4]  When  Lyanna Stark , Ned's sister, heard of Mya's birth and parentage, she became less enthusiastic about her betrothal to Robert. [6]  Robert often brought Ned along during his daily visits to see Mya, even after he lost interest in her mother. [4]  Mya remained in the Vale at the  Gates of the Moon [5]  when Robert became king after  Robert's Rebellion  and took up residence in the  Red Keep  of  King's Landing .
 At some point after the birth of Prince  Joffrey Baratheon , Robert expressed interest in taking one of his baseborn daughters (apparently Mya) to court in King's Landing. Queen  Cersei Lannister  did not protest, but spitefully stated that "the city is not a healthy place for a growing girl", inferring that Cersei would harm her. Robert grew enraged enough to strike his wife, but did not press the point. [7] 
 Mya is somewhat openly known to be the  bastard  daughter of the king, although she was not acknowledged by her father. She has vague memories of him, as a big strong man tossing her in the air and catching her. [8]  While  Maddy  knows the truth, it is unclear if Mya is aware that the king is her father. [8] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Having learned that  Gendry  is one of King  Robert I Baratheon 's  bastards , Lord  Eddard Stark  recalls Mya from when he was fostered with Robert at the court of Lord  Jon Arryn . [4] 
 After  Catelyn Stark 's arrival at the  Gates of the Moon , she is ordered to ascend to the  Eyrie  by Lady  Lysa Arryn . Mya assists Catelyn to  Sky  using mules, after which Lady Stark ascends to the Eyrie in a basket. Mya tells Cat that she is in love with a squire,  Mychel Redfort , and hopes to marry him when he is made a  knight . Cat believes this unlikely to happen, as Mya is baseborn and  House Redfort  descends from  First Men  nobility. [2] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Mya is now nineteen years old, King Robert's eldest child. [9] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Myranda Royce  reveals to " Alayne Stone " that Mya lost her virginity to Mychel. Mya still hoped for marriage, till the newly-knighted Mychel was ordered by his father, Lord  Horton Redfort , to marry  Ysilla Royce , daughter of Lord  Yohn Royce . [8] 
 Mya catches the eye of the older Ser  Lothor Brune . [8]  Mya assists Alayne and Lord  Robert Arryn  when they descend from the Eyrie to the  Gates of the Moon . She commands other mule handlers, including  Carrot  and  Ossy . [8] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Mya informs young Robert that Lady  Anya Waynwood 's party has arrived at the Gates of the Moon for the tourney for the  Brotherhood of Winged Knights . Alayne notices that Mya is unhappy with Mychel's presence at the castle, and also that the baseborn girl seems nervous around nobility. [10] 
 
 Quotes by Mya 
 I promise you, my lady, no harm will come to you. It would be my honor to take you up. I've made the dark climb a hundred times.  Mychel  says my father must have been a goat. [2] 
  - Mya to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 Mychel  says I have the eyes of the owl. [2] 
  - Mya to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 Men come and go. They lie, or die, or leave you. A mountain is not a man, though, and stone is a mountain's daughter. I trust my father, and I trust my mules. I won't fall. [8] 
  – Mya to " Alayne Stone "
 Quotes about Mya 
 Mya's a clever girl, and if she vows she will bring you safely to the Lady  Lysa , I believe her. She has not failed me yet. [2] 
  -  Nestor Royce  to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 
 She could be pretty, if she would dress up like a girl. [8] 
  - thoughts of " Alayne Stone "
 
 
 Alayne : Do you think Ser  Lothor  likes her as she is, in mail and leather? Or does he dream of her draped in silks and velvets? 
 Myranda : He's a man. He dreams of her naked. [8] 
  - " Alayne Stone " and  Myranda Royce 
 Family Tree 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [11]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [11]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Mya Stone  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Mya Stone. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 35 , Eddard IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3   8.4   8.5   8.6   8.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑   Alayne I (The Winds of Winter) 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mya_Stone&oldid=218733 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon Bastards House Royce of the Gates of the Moon retainers Characters from the Vale   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
