
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Mycah 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Mycah 
 art by Flibertyjibbeth 
 Culture 
 Westeros Born 
In  285 AC [1] Died 
In  298 AC , at  Riverlands , near the  Ruby Ford . Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Rhodri Hosking TV series 
 Season 1 
 Mycah  is the son of a butcher who befriends  Arya Stark . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 3   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Mycah 
   Rhodri Hosking as Mycah in the HBO adaptation 
 He is an ugly boy, with a rough face, freckles and red hair. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Mycah is a butcher's boy who  Arya Stark  befriends on the ride south from  Winterfell  to  King's Landing . He sleeps in the meat wagon and smells accordingly. Just seeing him makes  Sansa  sick. Arya and Mycah start exploring together the lands through which the treck passes. Mycah shows Arya a  lizard lion  when they come through  the Neck  and, when they reach the  Ruby Ford , they intend to search the  Trident  for rubies from the armor of Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen . [2] 
 He and Arya are practicing sword-fighting on the banks of the Trident. Mycah lands a hit on Arya's hand with his stick, just as Prince  Joffrey  and Sansa come upon them. Joffrey, slightly drunk on wine, is amused about the scene and only Sansa shouting at Arya makes him aware that this is her sister. Joffrey asks the boy who he is, but Mycah is too afraid to answer the prince. Sansa says that he's the butcher's boy, but Arya corrects her, introducing Mycah as her friend. Joffrey mocks that a butcher boy wants to be a knight, then suggests to fight Mycah himself, but with his sword  Lion's Tooth  rather than with a stick, asking Mycah whether he only dares to fight girls. Mycah insists that Arya asked him to fight her and Sansa realizes that he's telling the truth. However, Joffrey intimidates Mycah by asking him whether he knew he hurt his betrothed's sister. He lays the point of his sword on Mycah's cheek, drawing some blood. While Mycah is frozen in fear, Arya shouts that Joffrey should stop it, grabs her stick and, too late for Sansa to interfere, hits Joffrey on the head, causing a laceration. While Mycah flees the scene, Joffrey whirls around at Arya in anger and manages to defend himself against a second attack, splintering Arya's stick. Arya hurls a rock at Joffrey, but misses him. Joffrey goes after her, cursing. Before he can reach Arya, he is attacked by her  direwolf   Nymeria  who mangles his sword arm, causing him to drop his sword and to whimper in pain. Arya picks up Lion's Tooth and throws it into the Trident, then runs away. [2] 
 Arya is found after four days and brought before  King Robert  and  Queen Cersei , who have taken the castle of  Raymun Darry  as their temporary residence while both banks of the Trident were searched for Arya and Mycah. Cersei accuses the two of having attacked Joffrey together, a version of events that is confirmed by Joffrey. Arya calls Joffrey a liar. They both present their very different stories. Then Sansa is called as witness. Afraid that contradicting Joffrey would put an end to their betrothal, Sansa claims she can't remember as everything went down so fast, arousing Arya's anger. King Robert decides that both Arya and Joffrey should be disciplined, but Queen Cersei insists that Sansa's direwolf  Lady  should be killed, in place for Nymeria who has vanished. As Lord  Eddard Stark  returns after he has put down the direwolf, he comes across  Sandor Clegane , who has returned with a search party, carrying the body of Mycah in a cloak. The blow of the Hound's sword has almost cut the boy in half from shoulder to waist, as Eddard notices in horror. [3] 
 The events cause a deep resentment in Arya against Cersei, Joffrey and the Hound. She believes in  Jeyne Poole 's elaborated version of the story, where Mycah's body was cut in so many pieces that, when the sack containing the remains was given to Mycah's father, the butcher believed he was handed a slaughtered pig. Arya is also angry with Sansa for not telling the truth about what happened and with her father and his men for allowing Mycah to be killed. She also feels guilt over his death, assuming that nothing would have happened to the butcher's boy if she hadn't talked him into practicing sword fighting. When she tells her father about this, Lord Eddard consoles her, explaining that this is solely the guilt of the Hound and of the cruel woman he serves. [4] 
 Following the attack on Lord Eddard by  Lannister  men led by Ser  Jaime Lannister , in which several  Stark  guards are killed, Arya says to Sansa that Jaime should be beheaded for this, as should the Hound for killing Mycah. When Sansa insists that the Hound is Joffrey's  sworn shield  and that Arya and Mycah attacked Joffrey, Arya calls her a liar. [5] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 When  Sandor Clegane  is captured by  Beric Dondarrion  and the  Brotherhood Without Banners , he is put on trial for the offences of the  Lannister  army in the  Riverlands . After he denies the charges,  Arya Stark  informs them that Sandor is guilty of killing Mycah. While he does not deny killing Mycah, Sandor defends himself, saying that he was told the boy attacked Prince Joffrey and as his sworn shield he had a right to kill anyone who would harm the Prince. Since no one knows the truth of the charge, the Hound is forced to participate in a  trial by combat . The Hound wins and is set free. [6]  However, later when he is trying to provoke Arya Stark to kill him, he states that he cut Mycah -- calling him "Michael" -- near in half and laughed about it. [7] 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Mycah  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 16 , Eddard III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 22 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 44 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 34 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 74 , Arya XIII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Mycah&oldid=214705 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Westeros Smallfolk Characters killed by Sandor Clegane   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
