
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский Português 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Myrcella Baratheon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Myrcella Baratheon   
 Myrcella Baratheon by Amok © 
 Title 
Princess Allegiance 
 House Baratheon of King's Landing Born 
In  290 AC [1] , at  King's Landing Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Aimee Richardson  Season 1  |  Season 2  Nell Tiger Free  Season 5 TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 5 
 Princess  Myrcella Baratheon  is known to the  Seven Kingdoms  as the middle child of King  Robert Baratheon  and Queen  Cersei Lannister . A member of  House Baratheon of King's Landing , her siblings are Princes  Joffrey  and  Tommen . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , she is played by  Aimee Richardson  (Seasons  1  and  2 ) and  Nell Tiger Free  (Season  5 ).
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Myrcella 
 5   Quotes about Myrcella 
 6   Family 
 
 6.1   House Baratheon 
 6.2   House Lannister 
 
 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Myrcella Baratheon 
 Myrcella has golden curls, [2]  emerald eyes, [3]  and full lips. [4]  She is described by her uncle,  Tyrion Lannister , as having all of her mother  Cersei's  beauty, but none of her mother's nature. [5]  Myrcella is delicate, beautiful, and courteous. [6]  For her age, she displays courage, a strong will, and high intelligence. [7] [4]  She is eight, [8]  or almost eight, [9]  at the beginning of  A Song of Ice and Fire . Myrcella resembles  Rosamund Lannister . [10] 
 
 History 
 Following the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day , Myrcella and her siblings traveled with  Cersei  to  Casterly Rock  with their grandfather, Lord  Tywin Lannister . [11] 
 Myrcella has a garden at the  Red Keep . [12] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Myrcella Baratheon by Martina Pilcerova © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Princess Myrcella accompanies her father, King  Robert Baratheon , north to visit  Winterfell  and the  Starks . She is smitten with  Robb Stark  during the feast. [9]  She rides in the royal wheelhouse with her mother, Queen  Cersei Lannister . [6] 
 Myrcella and  Tommen  do not recognize a dirty  Arya Stark  when she chases cats in  King's Landing . [2] 
 Lord  Eddard Stark , the new  Hand of the King , discovers that Myrcella and her siblings are not the biological children of Robert, but actually of Cersei's twin brother, Ser  Jaime Lannister . [13]  With Robert dying from being gored by a boar, Lord  Renly Baratheon  suggests that Tommen and Myrcella be seized and that Robb wed Myrcella. Eddard refuses, however. [14] 
 After Robert's death, Myrcella is in the throne room when Eddard confronts Cersei and is betrayed by Lord  Petyr Baelish . [15] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Myrcella attends the  tourney on King Joffrey's name day . [16]  Announcing his claim to the  Iron Throne ,  Stannis Baratheon  declares that his niece and her siblings are abominations born of incest. [17] 
 In an effort to win  Dorne  to the side of  House Lannister  in the  War of the Five Kings , Myrcella's uncle,  Tyrion Lannister , offers to marry her to  Trystane Martell , the youngest son of  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne . [18]  The offer is accepted and Princess Myrcella, accompanied by her  sworn shield  Ser  Arys Oakheart  of the  Kingsguard , sets sail on the  Seaswift  for  Braavos , where they will be met by an escort from Dorne. The  riot of King's Landing  breaks out after Myrcella leaves the harbor. [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Myrcella arrives at  Sunspear  and befriends Princess  Arianne  and Prince Trystane, the children of Prince Doran. [19]  Her chambers are in the  Old Palace 's Tower of the Sun. [4] 
 After the death of King Joffrey at  his wedding , Prince  Oberyn Martell  reminds Tyrion that according to  Dornish  law, Myrcella should succeed to the  Iron Throne  rather than her younger brother, King  Tommen I . [20] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Myrcella with Ser  Arys Oakheart  - by Sacha Angel Diener © 
 Myrcella adapts quickly to spicy Dornish cuisine, unlike her bodyguard, Ser Arys. She also enjoys playing  cyvasse  with Prince Trystane. Doran intends to bring the princess to the  Water Gardens  when he departs Sunspear. [4] 
 Following the death of her father, Oberyn,  Tyene Sand  suggests to her uncle, Prince Doran, that Myrcella be crowned  queen  in accordance with Dornish law. [3] 
 To get revenge against the  Lannisters  for the deaths of Oberyn and  Elia Martell , Arianne schemes to crown Myrcella queen after Joffrey's death, since Myrcella is older than Tommen. Arianne hopes that the  Dornishmen  will rise to defend her claim for a chance to war against the Lannisters, who would be expected to support Tommen. [4] 
 Arianne and a small group of friends travel with Myrcella through the desert, leaving the princess's cousin and handmaiden,  Rosamund Lannister , as a decoy in  Sunspear . Myrcella is claimed to be suffering from  redspots  to prevent Trystane from interfering. When they come to their destination on the  Greenblood , Doran's guardsmen are waiting for them, for their conspiracy has been betrayed. Myrcella's bodyguard, Ser  Arys Oakheart , attacks the guardsmen, but is killed by their captain,  Areo Hotah . During the chaos, Ser  Gerold Dayne , called Darkstar, strikes at Myrcella to force Doran into a war against the Lannisters. [10]  He fails to deal a killing blow, as Myrcella's horse veers away, but the princess is still wounded. Maester  Caleotte  saves her life, but Myrcella loses an ear and has a hideous facial scar. [21] 
 One of the  new dromonds  for the  royal fleet  is named  Princess Myrcella  by Tommen in honor of his sister. [22] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Having fled in exile to  Pentos , Tyrion considers crowning Myrcella but is convinced by  Illyrio Mopatis  to support  Daenerys Targaryen . [23] 
 Ser  Balon Swann  arrives at Sunspear, where he tells Prince Doran that King Tommen wishes his sister to return to King's Landing for a visit, inviting along Myrcella's betrothed, Prince Trystane. Doran assures the knight they will see Myrcella at the Water Gardens. [24] 
 During a private conversation with Doran and the  Sand Snakes , Arianne tells  Obara ,  Nymeria  and Tyene Sand that Myrcella will tell Balon that her Kingsguard, Arys, had been slain by Gerold Dayne, and that Gerold had tried to kill Myrcella as well. Prince Doran is convinced Myrcella will ask Balon to hunt down Gerold, and that Balon will not be able to refuse. Meanwhile, he decides that Myrcella will, indeed, return to King's Landing, in the company of Nym. [24] 
 Reflecting in the  riverlands , Jaime Lannister thinks he will need to tell Myrcella the truth about her paternity, though the Dornishmen will not like it. [25] 
 During her imprisonment by the  Faith , Cersei Lannister learns of Gerold's attack on her daughter from her uncle, Ser  Kevan Lannister . Kevan tells her that Myrcella blames Darkstar for both the attack on her, as well as the death of Arys. [26]  During a meeting of the  small council , Kevan discusses the preparations to be made for Myrcella's return. The princess has begun her journey to King's Landing with Nymeria. [27] 
 
 Quotes by Myrcella 
 Joffrey : Don't be childish. 
 Myrcella : We're children. We're  supposed  to be childish. [16] — Joffrey Baratheon  and Myrcella 
 
 Quotes about Myrcella 
 She had all of  her mother 's beauty, and none of her nature. [5] —thoughts of  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 Sansa : A royal wheelhouse is no place for  a wolf . And Princess Myrcella is afraid of them, you know that. 
 Arya : Myrcella is a little baby. [6] — Sansa Stark  and  Arya Stark 
 
 She is so pretty, don't you think? I wish that I had curls like hers. She was made to be a queen, just like  her mother . [3] — Tyene Sand  to  Doran Martell 
 
 I love Myrcella as a daughter. [4] — Arys Oakheart  to  Arianne Martell 
 
 The truth was, the princess was braver than  her brother , and brighter and more confident as well. Her wits were quicker, her courtesies more polished. Nothing daunted her, not even  Joffrey . [4] —thoughts of  Arys Oakheart 
 
 Protect Myrcella with your life. Defend her... and her rights. Set a crown upon her head. [4] — Arianne Martell  to  Arys Oakheart 
 
 Ser  Arys  was still dead, and Myrcella ... I never wanted that, never. I meant the girl no harm. All I wanted was for her to be a queen. If we had not been betrayed ... [21] —thoughts of  Arianne Martell 
 
 Family 
 House Baratheon 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [28]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [28]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 House Lannister 
 
                                     Tytos   Jeyne Marbrand                                       
                                                                                                                                                                     
             Tywin   Joanna Lannister   Kevan   Dorna Swyft   Emmon Frey   Genna   Tygett   Darlessa Marbrand   Gerion   Briony                     
                                                                                                                                       
 Robert Baratheon   Cersei   Jaime   Tyrion   Sansa Stark             Issue           Tyrek   Ermesande Hayford   Joy Hill               
                                                                                                                                       
 Joffrey Baratheon   Myrcella Baratheon   Tommen  Baratheon   Amerei Frey   Lancel   Martyn   Willem   Janei       
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Myrcella Baratheon  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 32 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 13 , The Soiled Knight. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 9 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 5 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 21 , The Queenmaker. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 25 , Eddard V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 49 , Eddard XIV. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 10 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 20 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 1 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑  24.0   24.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 48 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 54 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Myrcella_Baratheon&oldid=217183 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon House Lannister Bastards Characters from the Crownlands Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
