
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Nymeria Sand 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 For other uses, see  Nymeria (disambiguation) . 
 Nymeria Sand   
 Nymeria Sand by Elia Fernández 
 Alias 
Lady Nym Allegiance 
 House Martell Culture 
 Dornishmen Born 
In  274 AC  or  275 AC [1] , at  Volantis [2] Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Jessica Henwick TV series 
 Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Nymeria Sand , nicknamed  Lady Nym , is a  bastard  daughter of  Oberyn Martell  and a noblewoman from  Volantis . She is the second oldest of the infamous  Sand Snakes , so named for their bastard origin and the nickame of their father, the "Red Viper". In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by  Jessica Henwick .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Nymeria 
 5   Quotes about Nymeria 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Nymeria Sand 
 Nymeria is twenty-five years old, slim and slender as a willow, with straight black hair worn in a long braid which pulls back from a widow's peak. [3] [4]  She has dark eyes [3]  which are large and lustrous. [4]  Her full lips are wine red and curve in a silken smile, [3] [4]  and she has high cheekbones. [3]   Areo Hotah  describes Nym as having pale white skin in  A Feast for Crows [3] [2]  but mentions her olive skin in  A Dance with Dragons . [4]  Nymeria has all the beauty that her elder sister  Obara Sand  lacks but is no less deadly. [3]  Although elegant, Nym is vengeful. [4] 
 Nym dresses gracefully in shimmering lilac robes with a silk cape of cream and copper, [3]  and she also owns a yellow silk gown so sheer it reveals spun gold and jewels worn underneath. [4]  Nymeria rides a gold  sand steed  with a mane like white silk. [3]  Nym usually conceals a dozen daggers on her person [4]  and is proficient with the hidden blades. [3] 
 Nymeria is good friends with  Jeyne  and  Jennelyn Fowler . [5] 
 
 History 
 Nymeria's mother comes from the noblest blood of  Volantis , [3]  the  Free City  where Nym was born. [6] 
 Young Nym sometimes joined in play at the  Water Gardens  with her sister,  Tyene Sand , her cousin, Princess  Arianne Martell , and  Garin ,  Andrey Dalt , and  Sylva Santagar . [5]  Arianne keeps in her boot a throwing knife gifted to her by Nymeria. [7] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Lady Nym by quickreaver, Fantasy Flight Games © 
 Nymeria is abed with the  Fowler  twins,  Jeyne  and  Jennelyn , when she is told of the death of her father, Prince  Oberyn Martell , in  King's Landing . [3]  Ser  Daemon Sand  sends her a  raven  explaining how Ser  Gregor Clegane  was poisoned by Oberyn and is now dying. [3] 
 Accompanied by a dozen mounted spearmen, Nym meets  Doran Martell , the  Prince of Dorne  and Oberyn's elder brother, en route from the  Water Gardens  to  Sunspear . She demands vengeance for the death of her father and rejects the offer Lord  Tywin Lannister  made Doran for Gregor's head. Instead of open war, Nymeria wants to assassinate Tywin, his children Queen Regent  Cersei  and Ser  Jaime Lannister , and his grandchild, King  Tommen I Baratheon . After visits from Nym's other sisters, Doran has the  Sand Snakes  arrested and confined in the Spear Tower of  Sunspear . [3] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Nym and her sisters are released and are present at the feast at Sunspear when Ser  Balon Swann  presents the  Mountain's skull  to Doran. Balon seems discomforted by her silk gown. When Balon tells the manner of Gregor's death, Nymeria celebrates his suffering. When  Ricasso  raises a toast to King Tommen, Nym declines with a flick of her wrist. [4] 
 Doran sends Nym to King's Landing to take the vacant  Dornish  seat on the  small council . [4] 
 
 Quotes by Nymeria 
   Nymeria Sand by Hardcoremiike © 
 You know the  Fowler  words? Let Me Soar! That is all I ask of you. Let me soar, Uncle. [3] 
  - Nymeria to  Doran Martell 
 
 
 Nymeria :  Obara  would make  Oldtown  our father's funeral pyre, but I am not so greedy. Four lives will suffice for me. Lord  Tywin's  golden twins, as payment for  Elia's  children. The old lion, for Elia herself. And last of all  the little king , for  my father . 
 Doran : The boy has never wronged us. 
 
 Nymeria : Only royal blood can wash out my father's murder. [3] 
  - Nymeria and  Doran Martell 
 
 
 Ellaria : Where does it end? 
 Nymeria : It ends in blood, as it began. It ends when  Casterly Rock  is cracked open, so the sun can shine on the maggots and the worms within. It ends with the utter ruin of  Tywin Lannister  and all his works. 
 Ellaria : The man died at the hand of  his own son . What more could you wish? 
 
 Nymeria : I could wish that he died at my hand. If he had, his dying would not have been so easy. [4] 
  -  Ellaria Sand  and Nymeria
 
 
 Doran : We need a voice in  council , an ear at court. Be careful, though.  King's Landing  is a pit of snakes. 
 Nymeria : Why, Uncle, I love snakes. [4] 
  -  Doran Martell  and Nymeria
 Quotes about Nymeria 
 Nymeria was least dangerous when nearly naked. Elsewise she was sure to have a dozen blades concealed about her person. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Areo Hotah 
 
 
 Hotah studied each of them in turn.  Obara , rusted nails and boiled leather, with her angry, close-set eyes and rat-brown hair. Nymeria, languid, elegant, olive-skinned, her long black braid bound up in red-gold wire.  Tyene , blue-eyed and blond, a child-woman with her soft hands and little giggles. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Areo Hotah 
 
 
 The Lady Nym. But no lady, if even half of what  Qyburn  reports is true. A bastard daughter of the Red Viper, near as notorious as her father and intent on claiming the council seat that Prince  Oberyn  himself had occupied so briefly. [8] 
  - thoughts of  Kevan Lannister 
 Family 
 
                                                                                     
     Princess of Dorne   Unknown           Lewyn           
                                                                                                                                                   
 Doran   Mellario   Mors   Olyvar   Elia   Rhaegar Targaryen         Various women   Oberyn   Ellaria Sand                 
                                                                                                                                                                                   
 Arianne   Quentyn   Trystane           Rhaenys Targaryen   Aegon Targaryen   Obara Sand     Tyene Sand     Elia Sand     Dorea Sand       
                                                                                           
                                                     Nymeria Sand   Sarella Sand   Obella Sand   Loreza Sand   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Nymeria Sand  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Nymeria Sand. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10   3.11   3.12   3.13   3.14     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑  4.00   4.01   4.02   4.03   4.04   4.05   4.06   4.07   4.08   4.09   4.10   4.11   4.12     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Volantis. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 21 , The Queenmaker. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Nymeria_Sand&oldid=208544 "  
 Categories :  House Martell Bastards Characters from Dorne Characters from Volantis Members of the small council Sand Snakes   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
