
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Obara Sand 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Obara Sand  
 Obara Sand by Elia Fernández 
 Allegiance 
 House Martell Culture 
 Dornishmen Born 
In  271 AC  or  272 AC [1] , at  Oldtown [2] Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Keisha Castle-Hughes TV series 
 Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Obara Sand  is the  bastard  daughter of  Oberyn Martell  and an  Oldtown  whore. She is the eldest of the infamous  Sand Snakes . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by  Keisha Castle-Hughes .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.3   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Obara 
 5   Quotes about Obara 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Obara Sand 
 Obara is a big-boned woman near to thirty, long-legged, with close-set eyes and with the same rat-brown hair of her mother [3]  which she sometimes ties in a knot. [4]  She strides quickly and angrily. [3] [4]  Obara has callused hands and can have a mannish look. [4] 
 A prickly, hot-tempered woman, [5]  Obara is given to martial pursuits as she considers herself  a warrior . She wears a mottled sandsilk cloak of dun and gold over brown riding leathers and wields a spear, a whip, and a round shield of steel and copper. [3]  Instead of a gown, fierce Obara prefers men's breeches, a calf-length linen tunic, and a belt of copper suns. [4] 
 Obara is a confident rider who uses spurs, often to the point where the animal is bloody, and she always rides stallions. [3]  Obara is also fond of  wine . [5] 
 
 History 
 Obara chose her father,  Oberyn Martell , over her mother, a  prostitute , when Oberyn came to  Oldtown  to claim her. Obara's mother drank herself to death within a year. [3] 
 Obara spent part of her youth at the  Water Gardens . [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Obara Sand by Tristan Denecke © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Obara meets  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne , at the  Water Gardens , demanding vengeance for her father,  Oberyn Martell , who was slain by Ser  Gregor Clegane  in  King's Landing . Obara wants to slay Gregor's liege, Lord  Tywin Lannister , and burn  Oldtown . Doran says he will think about it. After more visits by her half-sisters, Doran orders the arrest of all the  Sand Snakes . [3]  The elder sisters are detained in the Spear Tower in  Sunspear . [4] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Obara and her sisters are released from the Spear Tower and are present at the feast when Ser  Balon Swann  presents the  Mountain's skull  to Doran. She places Gregor's skull on top of a marble column because Maester  Caleotte  cannot reach it. [4]  When a toast is raised by  Ricasso  to King  Tommen I Baratheon , Obara allows her wine cup to be filled before upending it onto the floor and leaving. [4] 
 When discussing Gregor's death with her sisters,  Areo Hotah ,  Arianne Martell ,  Ellaria Sand , and Prince Doran, Obara vouches for war against  House Lannister , causing Ellaria alarm. [4]  Doran has Obara lead Balon to  High Hermitage  so he can hunt and kill Ser  Gerold Dayne  for his attack on Princess  Myrcella . [4] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Areo Hotah  joins Obara during her journey. [6] 
 
 Quotes by Obara 
   Choosing the Spear by Tristan Denecke © Fantasy Flight Games 
 The day  my father  came to claim me, my mother did not wish for me to go. 'She is a girl,' she said, 'and I do not think that she is yours. I had a thousand other men.' He tossed his spear at my feet and gave my mother the back of his hand across the face, so she began to weep. 'Girl or boy, we fight our battles,' he said, 'but the gods let us choose our weapons.' He pointed to the spear, then to my mother's tears, and I picked up the spear. 'I told you she was mine,' my father said, and took me. My mother drank herself to death within the year. They say that she was weeping as she died. [3] 
  - Obara to  Doran Martell 
 
 
 Give me back my spear, Uncle.  Cersei  sent us  a head . We should send her back a bag of them. [4] 
  - Obara to  Doran Martell 
 Quotes about Obara 
 Obara Sand always walked too fast. She is chasing after something she can never catch,  the prince  had told  his daughter  once, in the captain's hearing. [7] 
  - thoughts of  Areo Hotah 
 
 
 Quick and strong as she was, the woman was no match for him, he knew ... but she did not, and he had no wish to see her blood upon the pale pink marble. [3] 
  - thoughts of  Areo Hotah 
 
 
 Hotah studied each of them in turn. Obara, rusted nails and boiled leather, with her angry, close-set eyes and rat-brown hair.  Nymeria , languid, elegant, olive-skinned, her long black braid bound up in red-gold wire.  Tyene , blue-eyed and blond, a child-woman with her soft hands and little giggles. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Areo Hotah 
 Family 
 
                                                                                     
     Princess of Dorne   Unknown           Lewyn           
                                                                                                                                                   
 Doran   Mellario   Mors   Olyvar   Elia   Rhaegar Targaryen         Various women   Oberyn   Ellaria Sand                 
                                                                                                                                                                                   
 Arianne   Quentyn   Trystane           Rhaenys Targaryen   Aegon Targaryen   Obara Sand     Tyene Sand     Elia Sand     Dorea Sand       
                                                                                           
                                                     Nymeria Sand   Sarella Sand   Obella Sand   Loreza Sand   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Obara Sand  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Obara Sand. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 2 , The Captain Of Guards. 
 
 ↑  4.00   4.01   4.02   4.03   4.04   4.05   4.06   4.07   4.08   4.09   4.10     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 38 , The Watcher. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Obara_Sand&oldid=218778 "  
 Categories :  House Martell Bastards Characters from Dorne Sand Snakes Warrior Women   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
