
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Olenna Tyrell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 (Redirected from  Olenna Redwyne ) 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Olenna Tyrell   
 Olenna by  Amok© 
 Alias 
Olenna Redwyne Queen of Thorns Title 
Dowager Lady of  Highgarden Allegiance 
 House Redwyne House Tyrell Born 
In  228 AC [1] , at  Arbor [2] Spouse 
Lord  Luthor Tyrell Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Diana Rigg TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Olenna Tyrell , [3] [4] [5]  also known as  Olenna Redwyne , [6] [2]  is the widow of Lord  Luthor Tyrell  and the mother of  Mace Tyrell , Lord of  Highgarden . Born into  House Redwyne  of the  Arbor , she is commonly known as the  Queen of Thorns  because of her sharp tongue. [7]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by Dame  Diana Rigg .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Olenna 
 5   Quotes about Olenna 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Olenna Redwyne 
 Lady Olenna is in her sixties  [8]  with white hair and very small. She has soft, spotted hands with gaunt thin fingers. Olenna has an old woman's sour breath. She is older than Lord  Hoster Tully . [3]  She has lost her teeth. [9]  Olenna walks with a cane  [4]  and claims to be near deaf, [3]  but both might be part of her feigning to be more frail than she actually is. [10] 
 Olenna rarely shies from stating her opinion. She is described as a wizened, cunning old woman with a wicked wit and a sharp tongue, earning her the moniker 'Queen of Thorns'. According to her granddaughter  Margaery , she is not the most patient of women. [3]  Although she regularly mocks members of her own family, [3] [9]  she seems to be a staunch supporter of  Tyrell  family interests. [10] [5] 
 
 History 
 Olenna was betrothed to Prince  Daeron Targaryen  when they were both nine, [6]  but she claims she did everything she could to make sure it never came to fruition. [3]  According to  maesters  it was Daeron who broke the betrothal when they were eighteen in  246 AC , [6]  but Olenna speaks contemptuously of the  oddness  of  House Targaryen . [3] 
 Olenna liked her husband  Luthor Tyrell  well enough, as he was kind and not unskilled in bed, but she still considered him an oaf. She regrets that she did not have a chance to beat her son  Mace  more often when he was a child, as that would have made him more ready to heed her advice when he became an adult. [3] 
 Olenna is the aunt of  Paxter Redwyne , Lord of the  Arbor . [11]  She has twin guardsmen named  Erryk  and  Arryk , whom she refers to as "Left and Right" because she cannot tell them apart. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 After the death of King  Renly Baratheon , Lord  Petyr Baelish  is sent to  Bitterbridge [12]  and  Highgarden [10]  to negotiate an alliance between  House Lannister  and  House Tyrell , including a marriage between King  Joffrey I Baratheon  and  Margaery Tyrell , Renly's widow and Olenna's granddaughter. [12]  During the negotiations, Lady Olenna asks Petyr pointed questions about Joffrey's nature. Petyr praises Joffrey to the skies, but secretly uses some of his escorts to plant disturbing rumors about the king among the servants at Highgarden, thereby creating doubts about the truth of his official statements. [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Olenna having dinner with  Margaery  and  Sansa  - by mustamirri © 
 Lady Olenna comes to  King's Landing  to attend the wedding of Margaery to Joffrey. During a supper with Margaery and a number of noble ladies of houses sworn to the  Tyrells , Olenna sharply questions  Sansa Stark  about Joffrey's nature. She refuses to listen to Sansa's evasions and half truths about Joffrey and gets Sansa to speak the truth about Joffrey's cruelty and the beatings he gave her. To prevent any potential spy from listening to Sansa, Olenna orders her jester,  Butterbumps , to sing loudly. She also compares her son, Lord  Mace , to a puff fish of the  Summer Isles . [3] 
 Olenna plots with Margaery to marry Sansa to her grandson  Willas  without letting Lord Mace know about it. [3]  However, Sansa unwisely tells  Dontos Hollard  about the plan [13]  and Dontos supposedly shares the information with Petyr. Lord Baelish foils the plot by telling Lord  Tywin Lannister  about it, who quickly marries Sansa to his own son,  Tyrion . [14] [13] 
 In turn, Olenna sabotages Tywin's plan to marry his widowed daughter, Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister , to Willas, the heir to  Highgarden . Although Mace is originally inclined to accept the offer, Olenna belabors her son and talks him out of it, arguing that Cersei is too old and too used for Willas. Tywin learns about this from Lord  Varys  and shares the information with Tyrion, but orders Tyrion not to tell Cersei about the reason and rather act as if the offer has never been made. [15] 
 Olenna seems to share the general aversion of the Tyrells against  House Martell . During an ugly confrontation in the yard of the  Red Keep , she calls  Oberyn Martell 's paramour,  Ellaria Sand , "the serpent's whore". [16] 
 Olenna is present at the wedding of her granddaughter Margaery and King Joffrey at the  Great Sept of Baelor . In the wedding procession after the ceremony, Ser  Kevan Lannister  escorts her out of the sept. Before the wedding feast in the throne room, Olenna approaches Sansa and expresses her condolences over the deaths of her brother, King  Robb Stark , and mother, Lady  Catelyn Stark , at the  Red Wedding . While she talks with her, Olenna puts Sansa's messy hair in order and straightens the hair net that Sansa has received from Dontos and which he told her to wear at the wedding. Later, Olenna makes a snide remark about how often " The Rains of Castamere " is being performed during the  wedding feast . When Joffrey begins to choke, she calls for help and later comforts Margaery. [4] [17] 
 While later revealing his part in planning Joffrey's death, Petyr implies to Sansa that Olenna is the one who poisoned the king, with some help from himself and the people he used, especially Dontos. He refers to Olenna straightening Sansa's hair net, implying that this was the moment the old woman took the black stones (actually a crystallized form of the  strangler ), which she used to  poison  Joffrey. Petyr suggests that Olenna killed Joffrey to spare her granddaughter Margaery from the same cruelty the boy showed Sansa and to prevent her hot-tempered grandson, Ser  Loras , from becoming a kingslayer in case he, while serving in the  Kingsguard , had to witness the king mistreating his sister. Petyr also shares how he planted disturbing rumors about Joffrey's character while he was at Highgarden, prompting Olenna's questioning Sansa when they first met. According to Petyr, Olenna knew Mace dreamed of his daughter Margaery becoming queen and for that they needed a king, but they did not need Joffrey, as Margaery could also marry his brother, Prince  Tommen Baratheon . [10] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Illustration by Elia Fernandez© 
 Lady Olenna attends the wake for Lord  Tywin Lannister  with her family. Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister  informs Lord  Mace Tyrell  that she has appointed Lord  Gyles Rosby  as  master of coin  instead of Mace's uncle  Garth , although the position had been promised to the  Tyrells  by Tywin. When Mace tries to protest, Olenna eases the tension, but not without making some inappropriate remarks about both Gyles and Garth. She also alludes to the smell emanating from Tywin's corpse, making Cersei angry. When Cersei suggests that Olenna would want to return to  Highgarden  soon, she replies that she cannot leave  King's Landing  before the wedding of  Margaery  and King  Tommen I Baratheon . She mentions that she had been discussing a date for the wedding with Tywin at the time of his death and proposes to talk about this with Cersei soon. [9] 
 In the negotiations with Cersei on the marriage between Tommen and Margaery, Olenna drives a hard bargain. She insists on an immediate wedding, much to Cersei's dismay, [18]  and she also throws out Cersei's suggestion that Tommen should wed his bride with a cloak in  Lannister  instead of  Baratheon  colors. [5]  Olenna, vouching for her granddaughter still being a maiden, [19]  also proposes that Tommen and Margaery share their bed as soon as they are married. Cersei, horrified by the suggestion, refuses this. However, Olenna is adamant that the royal couple should at least spend the wedding night together, as anything else would mean ill luck for the marriage. Cersei relents on this point, but she later regrets her concession and arranges for her brother, Ser  Jaime Lannister , to make certain that nothing happens between Tommen and Margaery that night. [5] 
 During the wedding feast, Olenna complains mockingly that " The Rains of Castamere " is not being sung. The nasty smile of the Queen of Thorns makes Cersei, who is increasingly wary of all Tyrells, think of  Maggy the Frog , although the two hardly look alike. Later that night, Olenna suggests to break up the feast and send king and queen to bed together. [5]  The day after the wedding, Olenna returns to Highgarden with her grandson, Ser  Garlan the Gallant . [5] 
 Following  Tyrion Lannister 's escape after Tywin's death,  Qyburn  informs Cersei that a gold coin dating from the time of  House Gardener  has been found in the quarters of an undergaoler named  Rugen  (actually an alias of  Varys ), who vanished at the time Tyrion did. [9]  From Lady  Taena Merryweather , Cersei also learns that Olenna keeps a large chest of gold from before  Aegon's Conquest  in her wheelhouse. In the event that unwary tradespeople offend her, she pays them in the old gold coins of the  Reach , which are only half the weight of newly minted gold dragons. [11]  Both pieces of information make Cersei suspect that the Tyrells were involved in the escape of Tyrion and in the assassination of Lord Tywin. [20] 
 
 Quotes by Olenna 
 All men are  fools , if truth be told, but the ones in motley are more amusing than ones with crowns.  [3] 
 
 - Olenna to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
  There is entirely too much tut-tutting in this  realm , if you ask me. All these kings would do a deal better if they put down their swords and listened to their mothers. [3] 
 
 – Olenna to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Hush, Alerie, don't take that tone with me. And don't call me Mother. If I'd given birth to you, I'm sure I'd remember. I'm only to blame for your husband, the  lord oaf of Highgarden . [3] 
 
 – Olenna to  Alerie Hightower 
 
 
 Night falls for all of us in the end, and too soon for some. You would know that more than most, poor child. You've had your share of grief, I know. We are sorry for your losses. [3] 
 
 – Olenna to  Sansa Stark 
 
 Quotes about Olenna 
 Sansa:  The Queen of Thorns, she's called. Isn't that right? 
 Loras:  It is. You'd best not use that name in her presence, though, or you're like to get pricked. [3] 
 
 –  Loras Tyrell  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Tyrion was beginning to wonder whether Lord  Luthor Tyrell  had ridden off that cliff intentionally. [4] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannisters  thoughts on Olenna
 
 
 The old woman is not boring, though, I'll grant her that. A fearsome old harridan, and not near as frail as she pretends. [10] 
 
 –  Petyr Baelish  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 Family 
 
         Runceford   Unknown wife                     
                                                                                                 
   Unknown Redwyne   Unknown Redwyne   Olenna   Luthor Tyrell                                 
                                                                                                                               
       Paxter   Mina Tyrell           Mace Tyrell   Alerie Hightower   Janna Tyrell   Jon Fossoway       Desmond   Denyse Hightower   Mathis Rowan   Bethany                 
                                                                                                                                                             
       Horas   Hobber   Desmera   Willas Tyrell   Garlan Tyrell   Leonette Fossoway   Loras Tyrell   Margaery Tyrell   Denys     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Olenna Redwyne  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Olenna Redwyne. 
 
 ↑  3.00   3.01   3.02   3.03   3.04   3.05   3.06   3.07   3.08   3.09   3.10   3.11   3.12   3.13   3.14   3.15     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aegon V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Lady Olenna and the Tyrells at the Blackwater , December 17, 1999 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 61 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 39 , Cersei IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 43 , Cersei X. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Olenna_Tyrell&oldid=207335 "  
 Categories :  House Redwyne House Tyrell Characters from the Reach Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
