
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Osha 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Osha 
 
 Allegiance 
 House Stark Culture 
 Free folk Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Natalia Tena TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3 
   Natalia Tena as Osha in  Game of Thrones 
 Osha  is a  free folk  woman who becomes a captive of  Winterfell  and later a servant of  House Stark . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is played by Natalia Tena. [1] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Osha 
 Osha is tall and lean, standing a head taller than  Robb Stark . She has a hard face and shaggy brown hair. [2]  Her body bears many scars.
 Osha is a  spearwife  from north of the  Wall . [2]  She is described as tough and uncomplaining. [3]  She worships the  old gods  of the forest and is knowledgeable about them, as well as the lands  beyond the Wall  and  their inhabitants . She also has a brother, who at some point killed a  giant .
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Osha travels with three other  wildlings  and a pair of  Night's Watch  deserters,  Stiv  and  Wallen . This group flees south of the  Wall , trying to escape the  Others . They cross the Wall and travel into the  wolfswood  north of  Winterfell , where they come upon the crippled  Bran Stark . Osha wants to take him hostage and return to  Mance Rayder , presumably to use him to gain passage south through the Wall.  Robb Stark ,  Theon Greyjoy ,  Grey Wind , and  Summer  arrive to rescue him and all of the band are killed, except Osha. She is taken back to  Winterfell  for questioning. [2]  She is eventually given a limited freedom of the castle for her good behavior and employed as a kitchen servant.  [4] 
 Osha goes to pray to the the  old gods  in the  godswood  and comes upon Bran as he finishes his prayers. She is wearing chains on her legs. The two bond to a degree, sharing a common devotion to the  old gods . She tells him that when the  weirwood  leaves are rustling in the wind, it means the old gods are listening. She also says that the old gods have no power in the south because the weirwoods are gone. She says that Robb is marching the wrong way, and that she has been trying to warn him that the Others are coming, but was ignored. [4] 
 Bran dreams that he saw his father, Lord  Eddard Stark , in the  crypt of Winterfell . Maester  Luwin  summons Osha to carry Bran and goes down to the crypts with him; Osha tells them that she has lived her life  beyond the Wall  and a hole in the ground will not scare her. Because of Osha’s good behavior, the chains from her shackles are removed, but the shackles remain to show she is not totally trusted. They are surprised in the catacombs by  Shaggydog , who savages Maester Luwin's arm. They return to Luwin's tower, where Osha bandages the maester's wound. [3] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Osha works in the kitchens, often giving Bran advice when she bathes in the godswood. During one of their conversations, Osha reveals to Bran that she had killed a Night's Watch ranger in the past. [5] 
 After  Winterfell is taken  by the turncloak Theon Greyjoy and his  ironborn , Osha publicly bends the knee to Theon and is set free. [6]  However, Osha secretly helps Bran and his companions escape and hide, killing  Drennan  in the process. [7] 
 After the  sack of Winterfell , Osha helps Bran and  Rickon  escape, along with their direwolves, the  Reed  siblings, and  Hodor . The group splits up outside Winterfell. Bran,  Summer , the Reeds, and Hodor head north while Osha escorts Rickon and  Shaggydog  to parts unknown. Before they leave, Osha grants a mortally wounded Maester  Luwin  the gift of mercy. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 It has been revealed by a survivor of the sack of Winterfell,  Wex Pyke , that Osha has taken Rickon and Shaggydog to  Skagos . [9] 
 
 Quotes 
 You tell him this, m’lord. You tell him he’s bound on marching the wrong way. It’s north he should be taking his swords. North, not south. 
  – Osha to  Bran Stark  regarding  Robb Stark 
 
 
 Who do you think sends the wind, if not the gods? [4] 
  – Osha to  Bran Stark 
 
 
 The  giants  I’ve seen, the  children  I’ve heard tell of, and the  white walkers  ... [10] 
  – Osha to  Bran Stark 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   HBO:Game of Thrones: Cast and Crew 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 37 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 66 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 53 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 69 , Bran VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 29 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Osha&oldid=209235 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Beyond the Wall House Stark retainers Warrior Women Wildlings Spearwives   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
