
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Penny 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Penny    
 Penny - by Pojypojy © 
 Alias 
Lady Imp Allegiance 
 Second Sons Born 
In  281 AC ,  282 AC  or  283 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Storm of Swords  (Appears) A Dance with Dragons  (Appears) The Winds of Winter  (Appears) 
 Penny  is a  dwarf  woman from across the  narrow sea .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Storm of Swords 
 3.2   A Feast for Crows 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.4   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   See Also 
 5   Quotes 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Penny 
 Penny has smooth pink cheeks, thick curly warm-brown hair, a heavy brow and a squashed nose. Her brown eyes are large and trusting. Tyrion has thought of Penny as being ugly and also almost pretty - if you can forget that she's a dwarf.
 
 History 
 Penny and her brother  Oppo  make their living as entertainers who ride atop a pig ( Pretty Pig ) and a dog ( Crunch ) while mock fighting each other. Her brother went by the name Groat. She and her brother were Groat and Penny after the two smallest coins.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
 In  Pentos  Penny and her brother are hired by a man known as  Oswell  to entertain the guests in  King's Landing  during  Joffrey Baratheon 's wedding to  Margaery Tyrell . They ride a pig and a dog while in painted wooden armor. [2]  It was Oppo who met with Oswell; Penny did not, as Oppo always made the arrangements.
 Unknown to the pair, this stunt was arranged by  Petyr Baelish  in order to provoke a quarrel between Tyrion and Joffrey, in order to add further false evidence against the dwarf when he would be accused of Joffrey's murder.
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Penny's brother Oppo is murdered by sailors from  Westeros  who falsely believe him to be  Tyrion Lannister . [3] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Penny spots  Tyrion Lannister  when he is a prisoner of  Jorah Mormont . Full of grief for her brother's death, she attacks him and is eventually restrained by Jorah. She is made to accompany the pair when they sail for  Meereen . Tyrion takes pity on her for what happened to her brother. [4]  She eventually teaches Tyrion how to joust while mounted on the pig. They, along with Jorah and the crew, are captured by slavers after their ship  Selaesori Qhoran   [5]  is captured and sold at auction. They are bought by  Yezzan zo Qaggaz  who outbids Brown  Ben Plumm . [6] 
 Penny and Tyrion are made to entertain the crowds in the  fighting pits  upon the day they are reopened. Unknown to the pair, lions were meant to be released on them after they finish their mock joust, but when  Daenerys Targaryen  learns of this, she orders the lions not to be released. [7]  When their master dies of the  pale mare , Penny, Tyrion and Jorah escape and secretly join the  Second Sons  led by Brown Ben Plumm, after Tyrion promises Plumm large sums of gold once he reclaims  Casterly Rock , of which he is the rightful heir. [8] [9] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 As the  Second Siege of Meereen  is beginning Tyrion finds Penny in their tent, she is already clad in the company's steel armor.
Penny helps him put on his armour. As Tyrion is reminiscing to her about his father during the  Battle of the Green Fork  she kisses him quickly. Tyrion Lannister is at a loss for words. Tyrion asks her if she heard the sound outside and that it is made by the war. Penny tells him that he is brave but he thinks she is lying and mocking him as he is reminded of  Shae 's lies.
 Penny senses Tyrion's fury and apologises to him. She then tells him she is frightened - but those were the same words Shae had used too. Tyrion remembers that he swallowed every bit of it, even though he had known  what Shae was . He becomes lost in a black rage, turns away from Penny and goes outside.
 
 See Also 
 An analysis on the dynamic of Penny and Tyrion's relationship:  The Meereenese Blot 
 Quotes 
 She looks so young, he thought. A girl, that's all she is. A girl, and almost pretty if you can forget that she's a dwarf. Her hair was a warm brown, thick and curly, and her eyes were large and trusting. Too trusting. 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Penny  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 33 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 40 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 47 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 57 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion XII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Penny&oldid=208236 "  
 Categories :  Slaves and freedmen Dwarfs Mummers Mercenaries Second Sons Characters from the Free Cities Slaves of the House of Qaggaz   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
