
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Pia 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Pia 
 Art by  TheThreeHares 
 Alias 
Pretty Pia Allegiance 
 House Whent Born 
At  Harrenhal Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Pia , also known as  Pretty Pia , is a servant of  House Whent  who works in the buttery at  Harrenhal . She has a reputation for promiscuity.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Character and Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Pia 
 5   Quotes about Pia 
 6   References 
 
 
 Character and Appearance 
 A pretty girl, [1]  Pia is sweet and simple. [2]  After angering  Gregor Clegane , she has a broken nose and is missing half of her teeth.
 
 History 
 Pia was born at Harrenhal. [2]  She was a young girl at the time of Lord  Walter Whent 's  great tourney . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 When Lord  Tywin Lannister  takes Harrenhal, Pia works at the buttery [3]  and sleeps with many of his  knights . [4]  When Lord  Roose Bolton  arrives after the  fall of Harrenhal , he sets up  stocks  near the bear pit for all the women who slept with  Lannister  men-at-arms, including Pia, and locks them up for any man to use.  Arya Stark  observes her being used by soldiers from  House Frey [5] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Pia is sent by  Qyburn  to Ser  Jaime Lannister 's bedchamber as Jaime recovers in Harrenhal after losing his sword hand. She mentions that as a little girl she witnessed him being raised to the  Kingsguard , and that she has long fantasized about him. Nonetheless, he sends her away. [1] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 When Jaime returns to  Harrenhal , Pia is one of only three of Lady  Shella Whent 's servants remaining in the castle, and is not nearly so pretty as she had been. For speaking when he wanted silence, Gregor smashed Pia's face with a mailed fist, breaking her nose and knocking out half of her teeth. [2]  Pia develops a habit of covering her mouth when she speaks, to hide her broken teeth. [6] 
 When Pia first sees Jaime she falls at his feet, sobbing and clinging to his leg with hysterical strength till Ser  Lyle Crakehall  pulls her off. Jaime tells her that no one will hurt her now - but that only makes her sob louder. Jaime notices that she is very different from the sweet, simple, giggly creature who had crawled beneath his blankets during his previous stay at Harrenhal. [2]  He thinks she is still pretty enough as long as she keeps her mouth closed. [6] 
 When one of the  Mountain's men  tries to rape Pia, Jaime commands Ser  Ilyn Payne  to take his head off. As they force him to his knees the perplexed man says they had her hundreds of times. When Ilyn presents Pia with his head she smiles through her ruined teeth. [6] 
 When the godly Ser  Bonifer Hasty  is named by Jaime as temporary castellan of  Harrenhal , he refers to Pia as a whore and wants her gone from Harrenhal. Jaime agrees to take her into his entourage as a washer woman. [2]  Jaime believes she is likely barren, as she has not become pregnant after being with numerous soldiers. [6] 
 Pia rides with Jaime's squires, on a gelding  Josmyn "Peck" Peckledon  has found for her; Jaime notices that Peck is interested in her. Upon arriving at  Darry , Jaime bathes in a tub, and is uncomfortably aware of Pia. After dismissing her Jaime asks Peck if he wants her and advises the youth to be kind if he beds her. Jaime suggests they use the empty bed of  Lancel Lannister , Lord of Darry. [6] 
 By the time they reach  Riverrun , Peck and Pia are regularly having sex. [7]  Jaime often goes to sleep to the sound of them in a corner of the tent. Pia is present in the tent when Jaime delivers his terms to Ser  Edmure Tully . [8] 
 
 Quotes by Pia 
 I was a slip of a girl when you came for  Lord Whent's tourney  and  the king  give you  your cloak . You were so handsome all in white, and everyone said what a brave knight you were. Sometimes when I'm with some man, I close my eyes and pretend it's you on top of me, with your smooth skin and gold curls. I never truly thought I'd have you, though. [1] 
  - Pia to  Jaime Lannister 
 Quotes about Pia 
 She is a font of corruption. I won't have her near  my men , flaunting her .... parts. [2] 
  -  Bonifer Hasty  to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Pia listened as solemnly as a girl of five being lessoned by her  septa . That's all she is, a little girl in a woman's body, scarred and scared. [6] 
  - thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Remember your vows. Pia is more fit for  Tyrion's  bed than yours. [6] 
  - thoughts of  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Josmyn : Kind, my lord? How .... how would I ...? 
 Jaime : Sweet words. Gentle touches. You don't want to wed her, but so long as you're abed treat her as you would your bride. [6] 
  -  Josmyn Peckledon  and  Jaime Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 64 , Arya X. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5   6.6   6.7     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 30 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 38 , Jaime VI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Pia&oldid=208755 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Riverlands House Whent retainers House Lannister retainers Smallfolk   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
