
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Ramsay Snow 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Ramsay Snow  
 Ramsay Bolton by  Amok© 
 Alias 
Ramsay Bolton   The Bastard of Bolton   The Bastard of the Dreadfort    Reek    Red Helm   Monster Title 
 Lord of the Hornwood Lord of Winterfell Castellan  of the  Dreadfort Allegiance 
 House Bolton of the Dreadfort House Bolton of Winterfell Culture 
 Northmen Born 
In  282 AC  or before [1] Spouse 
1st: Lady  Donella Hornwood 2nd: " Arya Stark " Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Iwan Rheon TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6 
 Ramsay Snow  is the  bastard  son of  Roose Bolton , Lord of the  Dreadfort  and head of  House Bolton , and is known as the  Bastard of Bolton  and the  Bastard of the Dreadfort . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Iwan Rheon .
 Ramsay has a group of men-at-arms who stand high in his favor and follow him loyally, although their true allegiance lies with Lord Roose. They are called the  Bastard's Boys , though never within their or Ramsay's hearing, and are just as depraved as Ramsay. Ramsay's personal steed is named  Blood , and he keeps a pack of  female hunting hounds . [2] [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Character 
 3   History 
 4   Recent Events 
 
 4.1   A Clash of Kings 
 4.2   A Storm of Swords 
 4.3   A Feast for Crows 
 4.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 4.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 5   Quotes by Ramsay 
 6   Quotes about Ramsay 
 7   Family 
 8   External Links 
 9   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Ramsay Bolton 
 Ramsay is an ugly young man, even when dressed finely. He is big boned and slope shouldered, with a fleshiness indicating he will be fat later in life. Ramsay's skin is pink and blotchy, his nose broad, his hair long and dark and dry. [4] [5]  Although his mouth is small, Ramsay's lips are wide and meaty, wormy looking, and he smiles a wet-lipped smile. His distinctive eyes resemble Roose's - small, close-set, and oddly pale, like two chips of dirty ice. Ramsay sometimes wears a garnet cut in the shape of a drop of blood in his right ear. [5] 
 Ramsay sometimes wears a black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin, along with black boots, belt, and scabbard. [5]  For battle Ramsay wears dark armor with a red helm and a pale pink cloak. His rounded helm and gorget resemble the face and shoulders of a skinless and bloody man whose mouth is open in a silent scream. [6] 
 Ramsay's weapons include a falchion, a dagger, and a flaying knife, all with hilts of yellow bone. [2] 
 
 Character 
 Ramsay considers himself a true  Bolton  despite his birth [7]  and is highly resentful of his baseborn status, referring to himself proudly as the trueborn scion of the Dreadfort and violently correcting those who refer to him otherwise. [6] [2] 
 Ramsay is a sadist; he is cruel, savage and wild, taking delight in torturing others. He is quite fond of the old  Bolton  custom of flaying their enemies alive. [5] 
 Ramsay is a cunning [8]  and capable manipulator. He is particularly good at thinking on his feet, [6]  though less savvy when it comes to long-term consequences and intricate politics. [2]  He openly enjoys abusive practices such as having young women stripped naked and released into the Bolton forests, before hunting them with a pack of  feral dogs . He gives a quick death to women who give him good sport (after raping them first), then flays their corpses. He likes to name his dogs after the women he enjoys most to "honor" them. The women who do not give him good sport are raped and then flayed alive. The skins of his kills are brought back with him to the Dreadfort as gruesome trophies. The bodies of the woman are fed to his dogs. [5] 
 Ramsay's father Roose chides him for his "amusements", and encourages Ramsay to incorporate his creed of "a peaceful land, a quiet people" [2]  into his own, if Ramsay ever hopes to rule. Roose states that Ramsay is fearless, which is a bad thing, as fear will keep a man alive in this world of treachery. [2] 
 Ramsay, though savage in battle, was never officially taught at arms. His tutor in martial prowess was  Reek , his serving man, who had never received any sword training himself. Ramsay's swordsmanship style is vicious and highly aggressive, wielding his sword as if it were a butcher's cleaver. [2] 
 
 History 
 Ramsay is the product of rape between Roose Bolton and a  miller's wife . While hunting along the  Weeping Water , Roose saw the miller's wife and decided to illicitly practice the banned tradition of the  first night , wherein a lord had the right to bed the commoner's bride. He hanged the miller under a tree for not informing his lord of the new marriage and raped the bride beneath his swaying body. A year later the woman arrived at the  Dreadfort  with the newborn Ramsay. Roose nearly killed her and the babe, but when he saw the child had his eyes, the taboo of  kinslaying  stayed his hand. The woman claimed her husband's brother stole the mill and cast her out. Angered by this, Roose had the man's tongue removed so he would spread no tales to Roose's liege lord,  Rickard Stark . Roose then gave the woman the mill along with a pig, several chicks and a bag of stars every year on the condition that she never reveal to Ramsay the truth about who his father was.
 
Ramsay's mother arrived at the castle years later claiming she needed help in raising Ramsay, who grew up wild and unruly. Roose sent Ramsay a servant known as  Reek . Reek, despite taking constant washes, always smelled bad due to some "unknown birth condition" that caused his skin to reek, thus his nickname. Giving him to Ramsay and his mother was actually a cruel jest by Roose, but Ramsay and Reek grew inseparable. Roose would later reflect on whether Ramsay had corrupted Reek or whether Reek had corrupted Ramsay, though Reek would follow Ramsay's orders quite faithfully; Ramsay mentioned once that Reek knew better than to deny him.   Ramsay hunting on  Blood  - by Thrumugnyr © 
 Despite Roose's instruction to Ramsay's mother, either she or Reek eventually informed him of his true parentage. Roose believes that both Reek and Ramsay's mother were urging Ramsay on, and constantly reminding the increasingly violent bastard of his "rights."
 While most bastards content themselves with their lot in life, Ramsay had larger ambitions. Roose's elder, trueborn son  Domeric  attempted to forge a sibling connection with his half-brother, though Ramsay swiftly went about disposing of him with poison, thus robbing Roose of his heir and becoming a  kinslayer . Ramsay earned the enmity of  House Dustin  in the process, as Lady  Barbrey Dustin  was fond of her nephew, Domeric. Two years prior to the beginning of the  War of the Five Kings , Roose brought Ramsay to the Dreadfort as he had no other sons, trueborn or otherwise. [7]  Ramsay doubtless learned to read and write while there. [9] 
 Ramsay is accompanied by Dreadfort men called the  Bastard's Boys , such as  Sour Alyn ,  Luton , and  Skinner . However, they are tasked by Roose with spying on Ramsay on behalf of the Lord of the Dreadfort. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
   The Bastard of Bolton - by Nick Alcorn © 
 While his father, Lord  Roose Bolton , is in southern  Westeros  during the  War of the Five Kings , Ramsay begins to amass troops at the  Dreadfort . [7]  When he receives news that the neighboring lands of  House Hornwood  have lost both Lord  Halys  and his heir  Daryn , Ramsay attacks, taking the  Hornwood  keep and forcing the widowed Lady  Donella Hornwood  to marry him. [10]  He rapes her, forces her to sign a document proclaiming him  Lord of the Hornwood , then locks her in a tower without food, where she starves to death after eating some of her fingers. [4] 
 The infamous Ramsay practices rape, murder, and other crimes around the lands adjacent to the Dreadfort. Ser  Rodrik Cassel  attempts to put an end to his atrocities after Ramsay forced himself upon Lady Hornwood. Rodrik's party comes across Ramsay shortly after he raped and killed a peasant girl and his companion  Reek  raped the corpse. Ramsay is able to survive by switching clothes with Reek, who is killed in his place. [6]  Rodrik yearns to put Ramsay-disguised-as-Reek to death too, but he needs him as a witness to many of Ramsay's crimes and brings him to Winterfell. [4] 
 In the  riverlands , Roose informs Ser  Edmure Tully  that Ramsay has been killed by Rodrik, and he hopes his campaign against  Harrenhal  will make up for his bastard's actions in the eyes of  Robb Stark ,  King in the North . [11] 
 After  Theon Greyjoy   captures Winterfell , Ramsay exchanges a vow of service to Theon for his release from Winterfell's dungeon. [12]  He quickly becomes one of Theon's more trusted attendants, assisting Theon in his hunt to bring the escaped  Bran  and  Rickon Stark  back to Winterfell. [13]  He orchestrates Theon's cover-up of the Stark boys' escape by killing two peasant boys of an age with the Starks, and then flaying the corpses to avoid recognition. Theon presents their flayed corpses as the Starks, then has their heads mounted on spikes over the castle walls. With the approval of Theon, Ramsay kills  Gelmarr ,  Aggar  and  Gynir ,  ironborn  who knew the truth about the bodies. Theon uses the Winterfell kennelmaster  Farlen  as a scapegoat and has him executed for the murders. Theon contemplates killing Reek too, but thinks better of it, fearing the servant had written and hidden an account of the truth. [9] 
 The tide soon turns against Theon, however, when  Dagmer Cleftjaw 's  assault is broken  and the northmen, enraged at Theon's duplicity and supposed murder of the young Stark children, march on Winterfell to liberate it. Unwilling to abandon the castle, though harboring few delusions about how likely a victory is, Theon and the few ironmen loyal to him prepare to make their final stand. Ramsay offers to help Theon by taking a large sum of money to the Dreadfort and returning with much-needed reinforcement, to which Theon reluctantly agrees. [9] 
 Ramsay and his forces march to Winterfell, where Ser  Rodrik Cassel  and his host move to greet them. Ramsay has swapped his serving man's garb for a full set of armor complete with a red helmet. As the castellan offers him his hand in friendship, however, Ramsay slices Cassel's arm off and leads his forces in a rampage through the stunned northmen's ranks.
 Following the  battle at Winterfell , Ramsay rides to the castle's gates and presents the corpses of Rodrik,  Leobald Tallhart  and  Cley Cerwyn  to an onlooking Theon as a sign of his loyalty. Theon opens the gates and meets with Ramsay himself, who removes his red helmet and reveals his true identity. He tells Theon that he would much enjoy the use of his bed-warmer  Kyra , and knocks him to the floor when Theon protests. Ramsay carries out a great  sack of Winterfell , murdering many of its inhabitants in cold blood, slaughtering the remaining ironmen, and capturing Theon in the process. [6] 
 
   Ramsay Snow and Theon at Moat Cailin - Conor Campbell © 
 A Storm of Swords 
 While traveling through the  northern mountains  toward the  Wall ,  Bran Stark  is told by a  Liddle  that the  Bastard's boys  are riding the  kingsroad  and asking about strangers. [14] 
 Ramsay keeps Theon at the Dreadfort, where he reportedly flays him. He sends a small piece of his skin to King  Robb Stark  as a gift, to show vengeance is being exacted for Bran and  Rickon Stark 's "murders." Ramsay's father, Lord  Roose Bolton , murders Robb at the  Red Wedding . Afterward,  House Bolton  is rewarded for their service to the  Lannisters , with Roose named  Warden of the North  and Ramsay betrothed to a girl posing as  Arya Stark  ( Jeyne Poole ); this would give Ramsay a claim to become Lord of  Winterfell . They also receive a decree of legitimization from King  Tommen I Baratheon , making him  Ramsay Bolton  instead of a  bastard  Snow. [15] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Ramsay, now the castellan of the Dreadfort, [16]  is reportedly gathering an army to march south to attack the  ironborn -occupied  Moat Cailin  from the rear. [17] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
   Roose Bolton , Ramsay Snow and  Reek  - Sir-Heartsalot © 
 Ramsay forces  Theon Greyjoy  to take on the role of  Reek , his slain serving man, never allowing Theon to bathe and covering him in excrement. Ramsay also removes the skin on several of Theon's toes and fingers, leaving him in agony for days before removing the joints. Ramsay breaks off several of Theon's teeth as he hated Theon's smile. It is also implied that Ramsay castrates Theon. Ramsay makes  "Little" Walder  and  "Big" Walder Frey  his squires. [5] 
 During a feast at the  Dreadfort , Theon is brought before Ramsay as he dines next to  Arnolf Karstark  and  Hother Umber . Ramsay plays mind games with Theon, before telling him he has a part to play. [5] 
 Ramsay captures  Moat Cailin  from the  ironborn  by sending Theon in as an envoy. Ramsay promises food and safe passage to the sick and starving islanders if they surrender. [3]  When they do surrender, Ramsay has all of them, bar his pet Theon, flayed alive and displays their skinless bodies on poles along the road by Moat Cailin. Roose is displeased by Ramsay's behavior, stating that he needs to be more discreet with his practices as his infamous exploits are now well known throughout the  north .
 The  Boltons  call upon the northern bannerman to assemble in  Barrowton  to pledge loyalty to the  Iron Throne  and attend the wedding of " Arya Stark ", actually  Jeyne Poole , to Ramsay. [18]  From Barrowton, Ramsay and his  Bastard Boys  unsuccessfully search for the missing  Frey  envoys,  Rhaegar ,  Symond , and  Jared . During the search he kills a peasant who addressed him politely as Lord Snow instead of Lord Bolton. When Ramsay returns to Barrowton, a feast is held by  House Stout  at  their keep , as Lady  Barbrey Dustin  has barred Ramsay from  Barrow Hall . After hearing that  Stannis Baratheon  has  taken Deepwood Motte , Roose decides to move the wedding from Barrowton to  Winterfell  to strengthen Ramsay's claim as  Lord of Winterfell  and to goad Stannis into fighting. Roose tells Theon that Ramsay will kill any sons birthed by Roose's new wife,  Walda Frey . [2] 
 At Winterfell, Ramsay weds Jeyne Poole, with only himself, his father and Theon knowing the girl is not Arya Stark, and he repeatedly abuses her while Theon watches. [19]  Jeyne and Theon, however, are rescued and freed by  Mance Rayder , whom  Jon Snow  sent to rescue his "sister" when he heard of the wedding. [20] [21]  Although Jeyne and Theon escape, Jon receives by raven a  message  purportedly from Ramsay claiming he has Mance, has defeated the northern army and killed Stannis in  battle  and claims he now possesses  Stannis's sword . He also states that he wants  his bride  back, as well as Queen  Selyse Florent , Princess  Shireen Baratheon ,  Melisandre ,  Val , the ' wildling prince ' (actually  the son  of  Gilly ) and his  Reek , and will come for Jon if he does not give him what he wants. [22]  Whether the letter actually came from Ramsay, and which parts, if any, of the letter's contents are true remains unknown.
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 Theon Greyjoy  tells King  Stannis Baratheon  that Ramsay is coming to fetch back his  escaped bride  and his Reek. [23] 
 
 Quotes by Ramsay 
 Strip off their skins.  Lord Bolton , he used to say a naked man has few secrets, but a flayed man's got none. [13] 
  - Ramsay as "Reek" to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Ramsay. Snow,  my wife  called me before she ate her fingers, but I say  Bolton . [6] 
  - Ramsay to  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 Save me the  Freys , and burn the rest. Burn it, burn it all. [6] 
  - Ramsay at the  Sack of Winterfell 
 Quotes about Ramsay 
 All you have I gave you. You would do well to remember that, bastard. [2] 
  –  Roose Bolton , to Ramsay.
 
 
 Power tastes best when sweetened by courtesy; you had best learn that if you ever hope to rule. [2] 
  –  Roose Bolton , to Ramsay
 
 
 This Ramsay was a monster and a murderer, and he died a coward. Or so I was told. [24] 
  –  Robb Stark , to  Lothar Frey 
 
 
 Wylla : He won't ever be my lord! He made  Lady Hornwood  marry him, then shut her in a dungeon and made her eat her fingers. Locke : The maid tells it true.  Roose Bolton 's cold and cunning, aye, but a man can deal with Roose. We've all known worse. But this bastard son of his ... they say he's mad and cruel, a monster. [25] 
  –  Wylla Manderly  and unnamed member of  House Locke 
 
 
 Robett : The evil is in his blood. He is a bastard born of rape. A  Snow , no matter what the  boy king  says. Wyman : Was snow ever so black? Ramsay took  Lord Hornwood's  lands by forcibly wedding  his widow , then locked her in a tower and forgot her. It is said she ate her own fingers in her extremity ... and the  Lannister  notion of king's justice is to reward her killer with  Ned Stark's   little girl . Robett : The  Boltons  have always been as cruel as they are cunning, but this one seems a beast in human skin. [26] 
  –  Robett Glover  and  Wyman Manderly 
 
 
 Roose : He should have been content to grind corn. Does he truly think that he can ever rule the  north ? Reek:  He fights for you, he’s strong. Roose:  Bulls are strong. Bears. I have seen my bastard fight. He is not entirely to blame. Reek was his tutor,  the first Reek , and Reek was never trained at arms. Ramsay is ferocious, I will grant you, but he swings that sword like a butcher hacking meat. Reek:  He’s not afraid of anyone, m’lord. Roose:  He should be. Fear is what keeps a man alive in this world of treachery and deceit. Even here in  Barrowton  the crows are circling, waiting to feast upon our flesh. The  Cerwyns  and the  Tallharts  are not to be relied on, my fat friend  Lord Wyman  plots betrayal, and  Whoresbane  … the  Umbers  may seem simple, but they are not without a certain low cunning. Ramsay should fear them all, as I do. The next time you see him, tell him that. [26] 
  – " Reek " and  Roose Bolton 
 
 
 His blood is bad. He needs to be leeched. The leeches suck away the bad blood, all the rage and pain. No man can think so full of anger. Ramsay, though … his tainted blood would poison even leeches, I fear. [26] 
  –  Roose Bolton , to " Reek "
 
 
 Theon : Never call him that! Ramsay Bolton, not Ramsay Snow, never  Snow , never, you have to remember his name, or he will hurt you. Stannis : He is welcome to try. Whatever name he goes by. [27] 
  –  Theon Greyjoy  and  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 Family 
 
   Bethany Ryswell         Roose   "Fat" Walda Frey               
                                 
         Domeric   Ramsay Snow   " Arya Stark "     
 
 
 
 External Links 
 Ramsay Bolton  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Ramsay Bolton  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.00   2.01   2.02   2.03   2.04   2.05   2.06   2.07   2.08   2.09   2.10     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 32 , Reek III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 20 , Reek II. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5   5.6     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 12 , Reek I. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.5   6.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 56 , Theon V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 28 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 28 , Jon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 37 , The Prince of Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 46 , A Ghost in Winterfell. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 51 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 69 , Jon XIII. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Theon I 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 19 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1   26.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 29 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Theon I 
 
 
 
   
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Bolton .  
The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Bolton.  
As with the A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  GNU Free Documentation License .
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Ramsay_Snow&oldid=218188 "  
 Categories :  House Bolton Bastards Castellans Characters from the North Kinslayers Legitimized bastards Lords of Winterfell Lords of the Hornwood Nobles   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
