
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Renly Baratheon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 "Renly" redirects here. For another character called Renly, see  Renly Norcross 
  Renly Baratheon  
 Fantasy Flight Games© 
 Alias 
The King in  Highgarden The King in the South Title 
 Lord Paramount of the Stormlands Lord of  Storm's End Master of laws Lord of the Seven Kingdoms  (claimant) Allegiance 
 House Baratheon Culture 
 Stormlands Born 
In  277 AC [1] Died 
In  299 AC , at  Storm's End Spouse 
 Margaery Tyrell Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Gethin Anthony TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Renly Baratheon  is the Lord of  Storm's End  and  Lord Paramount of the Stormlands . The younger brother of King  Robert I  and Lord  Stannis , Renly serves as  master of laws  on Robert's  small council . [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  Renly is played by  Gethin Anthony . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Sexuality 
 5   Quotes by Renly 
 6   Quotes about Renly 
 7   Family 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Renly Baratheon 
 Renly is a handsome and charismatic man, winning friends easily, but he also strikes some people as frivolous. [4]  Renly enjoys tournaments and hunting but is not driven by the passion for food, drink, or wenching, as  Robert I Baratheon  came to be. He is quite popular with the  smallfolk  due to his good looks, friendly ways and charisma. [5] 
 Renly is twenty-one years old, a tall man with black hair falling to his shoulders. [6]  He is thought to look eerily similar to a young Robert, though several inches shorter, and far less muscular. In  A Game of Thrones  he is said to wear green to match his eyes, [6]  but in  A Clash of Kings  he is described as having blue eyes like Robert. [4]   George R. R. Martin  has explained the inconsistency by saying that Renly's eyes are blue-green and change color depending on what he wears. [7]  Renly has a suit of enameled green armor with a helm adorned with a pair of golden antlers, [4]  which was made by  Tobho Mott . [8]  Renly keeps his body trim, and his thick, jet-black hair long but always neatly combed. He prefers to be clean-shaven. [9] 
 Unbeknownst to the realm at large, and despite the many women who are attracted to him, Renly is homosexual. [10] [11]  According to his lover, Ser  Loras Tyrell , Renly disdains book learning, believing that books should only be read by  maesters . Despite this, he owns books with "drawings that would turn a septon blind", implying some kind of pornography. [12] 
 
 History 
 Born in  277 AC , [1]  Renly was the youngest of the three sons of Lord  Steffon Baratheon  and Lady  Cassana Estermont . [2] [13]  When Renly was just an infant, his parents died in  278 AC [14]  when their ship returning from the  Free Cities  sank in a storm in  Shipbreaker Bay . [15] 
 Renly grew up at  Storm's End . Only a boy of six at the time of  Robert's Rebellion , he spent the war  under siege in Storm's End , together with his older brother,  Stannis , where he was witness to the desperation of the starving garrison. [16] [11] 
 As a boy, Renly loved bright colors and fabrics. He loved games as well, and would run laughing through the halls of Storm's End. [15] 
 By his older brother  Robert , Renly was eventually granted the seat of Storm's End and named  Lord Paramount of the Stormlands , upsetting Stannis, who felt that, as the elder of the two, Storm's End was his by right. [15] 
 When Renly turned sixteen, he made a lord's progress across the  stormlands  to mark his coming of age. During this progress, he also visited the isle of  Tarth , where Renly courteously danced with  Brienne of Tarth . [17] 
 Princess  Arianne Martell  recalls that Renly also visited  Sunspear  once. She had tried her best to seduce Renly, but remembers that he had seemed more bemused than inflamed by her attempts. [18] 
 During his time as Lord of Storm's End, Renly took  Loras Tyrell  as his page and squire. [19]  This was likely the start of their clandestine love affair. Although not widely known, their forbidden relationship is known to various others at court. [10] [11] 
 Renly was eventually named to the  small council , where he occupied the position of  master of laws . [2]  While he is at court, his  castellan  at  Storm's End  is Ser  Cortnay Penrose , who raises King Robert's bastard son,  Edric Storm , for them. [20]   Brella  runs Renly's household in  King's Landing  for him. [21] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Renly Baratheon as depicted in TV series 
 While King  Robert I Baratheon 's procession is returning from  Winterfell , Renly meets up with them, accompanied by Ser  Barristan Selmy ,  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , and the  King's Justice , Ser  Ilyn Payne . [6]  Deeply amused by Prince  Joffrey Baratheon 's accusations against  Arya Stark 's direwolf  Nymeria , Renly is forced to leave the room at  Darry , laughing at the thought of Joffrey being disarmed and beaten by a girl smaller and younger than him. [22] 
 Renly performs well in the  Hand's tourney , losing to the  Hound ,  Sandor Clegane . [5]  Renly shows Lord  Eddard Stark  a painted portrait of  Margaery Tyrell  and asks if she looks like  Lyanna Stark ; Eddard is puzzled by this but states the girl looks nothing like his late sister Lyanna. [8]  Renly and Ser  Loras Tyrell  want Robert to take Loras's sister, Margaery, as his new queen and they think if Margaery looks like Lyanna it would make the plan easier. [23] 
 While Robert lies dying after being wounded in the  kingswood , Renly approaches Eddard and suggests they seize control of the royal children before Queen  Cersei Lannister  can strike. Eddard refuses the offer, and Renly flees  King's Landing  along with Loras.
 After Robert's death, Renly manages to win the support of powerful  House Tyrell  and many of their bannermen through a secret love affair with Loras and a marriage to his sister Margaery. Renly is crowned  Lord of the Seven Kingdoms  at  Highgarden . [24] [25] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Renly with his wife  Margaery  - by Amok © 
 Through his charisma with and ties to  House Tyrell  and familiarity with his  stormlands  bannermen, Renly's claim to the  Iron Throne  is backed by the largest army in the  War of the Five Kings , despite his elder brother  Stannis  having the better claim.
 He also takes to wearing the stag of Baratheon but in the colors of House Tyrell. [4] 
 Renly spends a great deal of time moving through the  Reach , gaining support and men at castles such as  Horn Hill  while waiting for the right moment to strike. [26]  He hosts  tourneys  for his men, including a great  melee at Bitterbridge , and blocks the supply of food on the  roseroad  to  King's Landing , causing the capital to suffer starvation. All the while he waits for the  Lannisters  and  Starks  to wear each other down.  Brienne of Tarth , who is infatuated with Renly, joins the  Rainbow Guard  to be close to him. [4] 
 Robb Stark , the young  King in the North , sends his mother  Catelyn  to  Bitterbridge  to negotiate an alliance with Renly against Lord  Tywin Lannister , who is fortified at  Harrenhal . [27]  Renly states he might allow Robb to keep his title, but he refuses to allow the  north  to secede from the  Seven Kingdoms . [4] 
 Renly's plan goes awry, however, when Stannis unexpectedly  besieges Storm's End , forcing Renly to respond. [4]  Catelyn convinces the brothers to parley outside  Storm's End , but Renly makes light of the situation, refusing to back down from his claim and advising his older brother to give up and eat  a peach . Renly also denies Catelyn leave to return to  Riverrun , so she may witness the fate of "rebels". [26]  While preparing for battle with Stannis's forces the next dawn, however, Renly is slain by an  animated shadow  conjured by his brother's sorceress adviser,  Melisandre . [16]  Ser  Cortnay Penrose , the castellan of Storm's End, disbelieves that Renly has died, but his body goes missing before it can be presented as proof. [28] 
 Loras's brother, Ser  Garlan Tyrell , wears Renly's armor in the  Battle of the Blackwater  to make it appear that Renly's ghost has returned for vengeance against the  kinslaying  Stannis. [29] [30] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Following King  Joffrey I Baratheon 's wedding to Margaery,  Hamish the Harper  performs " Lord Renly's Ride " during the  wedding feast . Hamish sings of Renly's ghost repenting from his attempt to usurp his nephew, returning to this world to defend the realm from Stannis and then returning to Highgarden to see his true love's face one last time, which brings tears to Margaery's eyes. [31] 
 Ser Loras tells Ser  Jaime Lannister  that he buried Renly in a place they knew from when he was a squire at  Storm's End , where no one else could ever find and disturb his remains. [30] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Taena of Myr  tells  Cersei Lannister  that she was in attendance for Renly's wedding to  Margaery Tyrell  at  Highgarden , and she questions Margaery's claim that the marriage was never consummated. [32] 
 
 Sexuality 
 Although this is never explicitly stated, there are a number of oblique references that imply those who are close to him are aware of Renly's orientation and, more, that he and  Loras Tyrell  are involved. When  Stannis  and Renly are trading barbs in anticipation of battle at  Storm's End , Stannis calls Renly's wedding to  Margaery Tyrell  a "mummer's farce" and in response to Renly's comment, "You'll be pleased to know she came to me a maid," Stannis replies, "In your bed she's like to die that way." [26] 
 When  Jaime  stops  Loras  from confronting  Brienne , he threatens Loras: "Now sheathe your bloody sword, or I'll take it from you and shove it up some place even Renly never found." [33] 
 While contemplating Margaery's  maidenhood ,  Cersei  reflects on Margaery's marriage to Renly: "A man may prefer the taste of hippocras, yet if you set a tankard of ale before him, he will quaff it quick enough;" [34]  the implication being that although Renly prefers the company of men, he may nonetheless have bedded Margaery because she was available.
 
 Quotes by Renly 
 The matter seems simple enough to me. We ought to have had  Viserys  and  his sister  killed years ago, but  His Grace my brother  made the mistake of listening to  Jon Arryn . [35] 
 
 – Renly to the  small council 
 
 
 Renly:  Give me an hour and I could put a hundred swords at your command. 
 Eddard:  And what should I do with a hundred swords, my lord? 
 
 Renly:  Strike! Now, while  the castle  sleeps. We must get  Joffrey  away from  his mother  and take him in hand.  Protector of the Realm  or no, he who holds the king holds the kingdom. [36] 
 
 - Renly and  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Renly:  Every moment you delay gives  Cersei  another moment to prepare. By the time  Robert  dies, it may be too late ... for both of us. 
 Eddard:  Then we should pray that Robert does not die. 
 Renly:  Small chance of that. 
 Eddard:  Sometimes the gods are merciful. 
 
 Renly:  The  Lannisters  are not. [36] 
 
 – Renly and  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Renly:  I propose that you dismount, bend your knee, and swear me your allegiance. 
 Stannis:  That you shall never have. 
 Renly:  You served  Robert , why not me? 
 Stannis:  Robert was my elder brother. You are the younger. 
 Renly:  Younger, bolder, and far more comely ... 
 Stannis:  ... and a thief and a usurper besides. 
 
 Renly:  The  Targaryens  called Robert  usurper . He seemed to be able to bear the shame. So shall I. [26] 
 
 – Renly and  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 Stannis:  Do you think a few bolts of cloth will make you king? 
 Renly:   Tyrell  swords will make me king.  Rowan  and  Tarly  and  Caron  will make me king, with axe and mace and warhammer.  Tarth  arrows and  Penrose  lances,  Fossoway ,  Cuy ,  Mullendore ,  Estermont ,  Selmy ,  Hightower ,  Oakheart ,  Crane ,  Caswell ,  Blackbar ,  Morrigen ,  Beesbury ,  Shermer ,  Dunn ,  Footly  . . . even  House Florent ,  your own wife's  brothers and uncles, they will make me king. All the chivalry of the south rides with me, and that is the least part of my power. My foot is coming behind, a hundred thousand swords and spears and pikes. And you will destroy me? With what, pray? That paltry rabble I see there huddled under the castle walls? I'll call them five thousand and be generous, codfish lords and  onion knights  and sellswords. Half of them are like to come over to me before the battle starts. You have fewer than four hundred horse, my scouts tell me-freeriders in boiled leather who will not stand an instant against armored lances. I do not care how seasoned a warrior you think you are, Stannis, that host of yours won't survive the first charge of my vanguard. [26] 
 
 – Renly and  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 Why the oldest son, and not the best-fitted? The crown will suit me, as it never suited  Robert  and would not suit  Stannis . [26] 
 
 – Renly to  Catelyn Stark 
 
 Quotes about Renly 
 The bold little boy with wild black hair and laughing eyes was a man grown now, one-and-twenty, and still he played his games. "Look at me, I'm a king," Cressen thought sadly. Oh, Renly, Renly, dear sweet child, do you know what you are doing? And would you care if you did? is there anyone who cares for him but me? [15] 
 
 –  Cressen 's thoughts
 
 What has Renly ever done to earn a throne? He sits in council and jests with  Littlefinger , and at tourneys he dons his splendid suit of armor and allows himself to be knocked off his horse by a better man. That is the sum of my brother Renly, who thinks he ought to be king. [15] 
 
 –  Stannis Baratheon  to  Cressen 
 
 
 The youngest of Lord  Steffon's  three sons had grown into a man bold but heedless, who acted from impulse rather than calculation. In that, as in so much else, Renly was like his brother  Robert , and utterly unlike  Stannis .  [15] 
 
 –  Cressen 's thoughts
 
 
 My brother is young and strong, and he has a vast host around him, and these  rainbow knights  of his. [15] 
 
 –  Stannis Baratheon  to  Selyse Florent 
 
 
 Robert  was the true steel.  Stannis  is pure iron, black and hard and strong, yes, but brittle, the way iron gets. He'll break before he bends. And Renly, that one, he's copper, bright and shiny, pretty to look at but not worth all that much at the end of the day. [37] 
  –  Donal Noye  to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 He knew how to dress and he knew how to smile and he knew how to bathe, and somehow he got the notion that this made him fit to be king. [38] 
  –  Olenna Redwyne  to  Margaery Tyrell 
 
 
 When the sun has set, no candle can replace it. [39] 
  -  Loras Tyrell  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 I will defend King  Tommen  with all my strength, I swear it. I will give my life for his if need be. But I will never betray Renly, by word or deed. He was the king that should have been. He was the best of  them . [30] 
  –  Loras Tyrell  to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 I would have given my life for King Renly, and died happy. [17] 
  -  Brienne Tarth  to  Illifer  and  Creighton Longbough 
 Family 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [40]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [40]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   See the  Renly Baratheon  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  US Signing Tour (Albuquerque, NM) (November 29, 2005) 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑   A Song of Ice and Fire Campaign Guide 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   So Spake Martin :  To Be Continued (Chicago, IL; May 6-8) (May 06, 2005) 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Renly Baratheon. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 16 , Jaime II. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , Appendix: Targaryen Lineage. 
 
 ↑     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1   15.2   15.3   15.4   15.5   15.6     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 4 , Brienne I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 58 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 16 , Eddard III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 32 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1   26.2   26.3   26.4   26.5     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 7 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 62 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1   30.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 60 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 28 , Cersei VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑  36.0   36.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 6 , Jon I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 12 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  40.0   40.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Renly_Baratheon&oldid=213917 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Stormlands Claimants to the Iron Throne Lords of Storm's End Masters of laws Members of Robert Baratheon's court Monarchs Nobles Characters killed by Melisandre   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
