
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Türkçe Español فارسی Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Rhaegar Targaryen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Rhaegar Targaryen  
 Rhaegar Targaryen, as depicted by Karla Ortiz in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 Alias 
Silver prince [1] The dragon prince [2] The last dragon [3] Title 
 Prince of Dragonstone Ser Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Race 
 Valyrian Culture 
 Crownlands Born 
In  259 AC [4] , at  Summerhall [5] [4] Died 
In  283 AC [N 1] , at the  Trident [6] [7] Spouse 
Princess  Elia Martell Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Wilf Scolding TV series 
 Season 7 
 Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  was the firstborn son of King  Aerys II Targaryen  and his sister-wife, Queen  Rhaella . [8]  As heir-apparent, he was the  Prince of Dragonstone  and crown prince for the  Iron Throne . Rhaegar was popular with the  smallfolk  during his lifetime, but he died in  Robert's Rebellion  which was triggered in part by his abduction of  Lyanna Stark . He was slain in single combat by  Robert Baratheon  at the  ruby ford  during the  battle of the Trident . Rhaegar was the elder brother of the exiled last members of  House Targaryen , Prince  Viserys  and Princess  Daenerys .
 In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , Rhaegar is portrayed by  Wilf Scolding  in flashbacks.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Tourney at Harrenhal 
 2.3   Robert's Rebellion 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Rhaegar 
 5   Quotes about Rhaegar 
 6   Family 
 7   Notes 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Rhaegar Targaryen 
 The beautiful [9] [10]  Rhaegar had  deep purple [11]  or indigo colored eyes. [12]  He had long, elegant fingers, [9]  and was taller than his younger brother,  Viserys , would be in his adulthood. [12]  Rhaegar's hair was similar [12]  to the silver-blond of Viserys and their sister,  Daenerys . [13]  The hair of  Aurane Waters  is reminiscent of Rhaegar's, [14]  although the Bastard of Driftmark's is more silvery than gold. [15] 
 Rhaegar owned night-black plate armor, with the three-headed dragon of  House Targaryen  decorated in rubies on its breastplate, [6] [16] [17]  and underneath the plate he wore golden ringmail. [9]  Rhaegar decorated his helm with gold, orange, and red silken streamers resembling flames. [9] 
 Rhaegar was an intelligent young man, who excelled at anything to which he put his mind, [18]  and grew to be a great  knight  and a skilled musician. [19]  The latter, however, held his preference; men said Rhaegar loved his silver-stringed harp more than he loved his lance. [19]   Jorah Mormont  has described Rhaegar as valiant, honorable, and noble [20]  while  Barristan Selmy  has called him determined, deliberate, dutiful, and single-minded. [18]  The crown prince was said to have been uninterested in the play of other children as a boy, but bookish "to a fault". He learned to read at such an early age that people jested that his mother  Rhaella  had swallowed some books and a candle during her pregnancy. [18]  Later in life, however, Rhaegar did acquire several trusted and loyal companions. [18]  Rhaegar was deeply affected by "the shadow of  Summerhall ", because he was " born in grief " and was considered melancholic at times. [19]  At the same time, Summerhall was also Rhaegar's favorite place. [19] 
 The prince was well-loved by the people of the  Seven Kingdoms [9]  during his lifetime and is still fondly remembered to this day. [20]  While  Robert Baratheon  despises Rhaegar and accuses him of having raped  Lyanna Stark , the only thought of  Eddard Stark , Lyanna's brother, is he did not think Rhaegar frequented brothels. [21]   Jaime Lannister  remembers the iron tones of Rhaegar's voice [17] .  Barristan Selmy , who served three kings, thinks that Rhaegar would have been better than any of them. [22]  His sister, Daenerys, is frequently compared to Rhaegar as a compliment. [23] [24] [19]  People who had romantic feelings toward Rhaegar include  Cersei Lannister [9]  and  Jon Connington . [25] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
   Prince Rhaegar and Princess  Elia Martell  of  Dorne 's  wedding . 
 Prince Rhaegar was the firstborn son of King  Aerys II Targaryen  and Queen  Rhaella . He was born at  Summerhall  in  259 AC , on the same day as the  great tragedy there . [5] [26] [4]  As a child he read obsessively, to the point that jests were made about his habits. He became a noted warrior later in life, although he did not initially seem inclined to martial habits. However, apparently by something he had read, Rhaegar became motivated to become a warrior. [19] 
 At the age of seventeen, Rhaegar was  knighted , [9] [4]  and from all reports grew into a highly skilled and capable fighter, always distinguishing himself well at tournaments, although he seldom entered the lists - he never loved the song of swords the way that men like  Robert Baratheon  or  Jaime Lannister  did. [19] 
 Rhaegar's squires were  Myles Mooton  and  Richard Lonmouth , and after he knighted them they remained close companions.  Jon Connington , whom he had squired with, [27]  was a good friend to Rhaegar as well. Returning from a trip to  Dorne , Rhaegar once visited the  Connington  seat of  Griffin's Roost . His songs brought the castle's women to tears, while Lord  Armond Connington  sought  House Targaryen 's support against rival  House Morrigen . [11]  Rhaegar's closest and oldest friend, however, was Ser  Arthur Dayne , [18]  the  Sword of the Morning , trusting him more than Ser  Barristan Selmy . [28] 
 Rhaegar often liked to visit the ruins of Summerhall with only his harp and when he returned he sang songs of such beauty they could reduce women to tears. Although Rhaegar was often dour, private and bookish,  Cersei Lannister  noted at the  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  in  Lannisport  in  276 AC  that the  smallfolk  cheered for Lord  Tywin Lannister  twice as much as for King Aerys II, but only half as loudly for Tywin as for Rhaegar. [9]  Rhaegar fought well in the tourney besting a dozen skilled knights, among them Barristan Selmy,  Gerion , and  Tygett Lannister  but was defeated in the champion's tilt by his friend Arthur Dayne. [4]  Aerys refused Tywin's offer at the tourney to betroth Cersei to Rhaegar. [9]  Rhaegar defeated Arthur in the  tourney at Storm's End . [19] 
 Rhaegar was born at a time when the  Targaryen's  had declined, and once he came of age, there was no sister, or anyone else of their bloodline, available for him to marry. [29] [30]  King Aerys sent his first cousin, Lord  Steffon Baratheon , to seek a bride for Rhaegar. [30]  Despite  Valyrian  blood still being present in  Essos , Steffon could not find appropriate females of noble-enough birth for Rhaegar to wed. [4] 
 After this in early  279 AC , Rhaegar was formally betrothed to the  Dornish  princess,  Elia Martell , the younger sister of  Doran Martell ,  Prince of Dorne . They married the following year in  280 AC , a lavish ceremony was held at the  Great Sept of Baelor . His father did not attend the  wedding  as he was paranoid about an assassination attempt and nor did he permit the young Prince  Viserys  to attend. Rhaegar and his father's relationship was straining at this point, and he and his new bride took up residence on  Dragonstone  instead of  King's Landing . Rhaegar and Elia had their first child, a girl named  Rhaenys , [8]  in  280 AC . When the babe was presented at court, Rhaegar's mother, Queen Rhaella, embraced her grandchild warmly while King Aerys remarked: "she smells Dornish". The relationship between Aerys and Rhaegar became more and more estranged. [4] 
 Elia and Rhaegar had a son they named  Aegon . Elia, due to her delicate health, was bed-ridden for half a year after giving birth to Rhaenys and nearly died giving birth to Aegon, after which the  maesters  told Rhaegar she would be unable to have any more children. [11] 
 Maester  Aemon , whom Rhaegar corresponded with via  raven messages , remembers that Rhaegar believed his child Aegon to be  the prince that was promised . [5] 
 When Lord Tywin resigned his position as  Hand of the King  and left court, the new focus of King Aerys's mistrust and paranoia was his own son and heir, Prince Rhaegar. At court, there was growing tension between factions loyal to the king and to the prince. Grand Maester  Pycelle  dispatched a letter to the  Citadel , writing that tensions and division at court strongly resembled those before the  Dance of the Dragons . Pycelle was fearful a civil war would break out unless some accord could be reached that would satisfy both factions. [31] 
 
 Tourney at Harrenhal 
 Main article:  Tourney at Harrenhal 
   Rhaegar crowns  Lyanna Stark  as  queen of love and beauty , as depicted by Paolo Puggioni in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 In either  280 AC  or  281 AC , [N 2]  Lord  Walter Whent  announced a tourney would be held at  Harrenhal  to rival any previous tournament. It is believed by some that the tourney was secretly arranged and financed by Prince Rhaegar, as a pretext, so Rhaegar could meet up with the great lords of the realm to discuss arranging a  Great Council  and the removal of his father. The tournament was announced by Walter shortly after his brother, Ser  Oswell  of the  Kingsguard , visited his older brother. When Lord  Varys  alerted  Aerys II  to this possibility, the king decided to attend the tourney. [28] [31] 
 During the great  tourney at Harrenhal , Rhaegar seemed unstoppable and defeated even Ser  Arthur Dayne . Taking the  winter rose  crown for the  queen of love and beauty , he revealed his interest in  Lyanna Stark  by passing over his wife, Princess  Elia of Dorne , and setting it in Lyanna's lap.  Eddard Stark  later recalled that moment as "when all the smiles died". [16] [19]  The next year, Rhaegar seemingly kidnapped Lyanna, for reasons unknown. This act ultimately triggered  Robert's Rebellion  and the downfall of the  Targaryen dynasty .
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 Main article:  Robert's Rebellion 
   Prince Rhaegar and Lord  Robert Baratheon  in combat at the  battle of the Trident , as depicted by Justin Sweet in  The World of Ice & Fire . 
 Some believe that Rhaegar spent the beginning of  Robert's Rebellion , also known as the  War of the Usurper , with  Lyanna Stark  at the  tower of joy  in the  Red Mountains  of  Dorne . King Aerys sent Ser  Gerold Hightower , the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , to retrieve Rhaegar. Leaving Ser Gerold, Ser  Arthur Dayne , and Ser  Oswell Whent  at the tower, [26]  Rhaegar returned to the  crownlands  and took command of the Targaryen army after the defeat of his friend  Jon Connington  in the  battle of the Bells . Ser  Jaime Lannister  was left at the  Red Keep  to protect Rhaegar's father and family. [32] 
 Rhaegar met Lord  Robert Baratheon  in combat at a ford during the  battle of the Trident , where the pair had a legendary duel in the raging rivers of the  Trident . Rhaegar, despite wounding Robert, was struck down with a massive blow from Robert's warhammer, which scattered the rubies encrusted in Rhaegar's armor into the water. While Rhaegar lay dead in the stream, soldiers of both armies scrabbled in the water to search for the rubies. The location was named the  ruby ford  thereafter. Rhaegar died with Lyanna Stark's name on his lips. [26]  According to a semi-canon source, Rhaegar's body was cremated, as is traditional for fallen Targaryens. [33] 
 His wife  Elia  and their children were murdered by Ser  Gregor Clegane  and Ser  Amory Lorch  during the  sack of King's Landing . Amory dragged the screaming girl,  Rhaenys , from under her father's bed and stabbed her to death. Gregor, whom Rhaegar had knighted, killed the infant  Aegon  by dashing his head against the wall while his mother watched. He then raped and killed Elia while still covered in the blood and brains of her son. [34] [35]  Meanwhile, Jaime Lannister killed Rhaegar's father, King Aerys, to prevent the  wildfire plot , earning himself the  Kingslayer  sobriquet. [36] 
 The circumstances of Rhaegar's taking of Lyanna, and of her reaction to it, remain unknown. The  Starks ,  Brandon Stark  in particular, saw it as an abduction, and Robert Baratheon imagined that Rhaegar was raping Lyanna while he kept her prisoner. However, the Targaryen tradition sees Rhaegar acting out of true love for Lyanna. Lord  Eddard Stark , Lyanna's brother, and Lord  Howland Reed  found her at Rhaegar's tower of joy in Dorne. [37]  Lyanna died in the Red Mountains after Eddard's arrival and his  defeat of the three Kingsguard . She made her brother give a promise, the content of which remains unknown. [21] [38] 
 What all sides seem to agree upon is that the meeting of Rhaegar and Lyanna was fateful as it led to immense bloodshed. This leads to imaginations of an alternate history, in which Rhaegar never became infatuated with Lyanna.  Viserys Targaryen  blames his sister  Daenerys  once for the downfall of the Targaryens, because she was not born earlier, as Rhaegar could then have married her and might have never become interested in Lyanna. [19]  Ser  Kevan Lannister  imagines that, had King Aerys accepted Lord  Tywin Lannister 's proposal of marrying his daughter  Cersei  to Rhaegar, the dragon prince might have never looked twice at Lyanna. [39] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Prince Rhaegar and Princess  Elia Martell , by Denkata5698 ©. 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Discussing  Robert's Rebellion  with Lord  Eddard Stark , King  Robert I Baratheon  vilifies Rhaegar for raping Ned's sister,  Lyanna . [40] 
 When the royal party moving south from  Winterfell  to  King's Landing  reaches the  ruby ford ,  Arya Stark  and her friend  Mycah  decide to search the  Trident  for rubies from Rhaegar's armor. [41] 
 During her fever dream,  Daenerys Targaryen  sees her brother Rhaegar mounted on a stallion as black as his armor. Fire glimmers red through the narrow eye slit of his helm. When Daenerys lifts his polished black visor, the face within is her own. [42] 
 When Lord  Tywin Lannister  discusses with his brother Ser  Kevan  and his son  Tyrion  the dire situation of the  Lannister  forces after the defeats in the  battle in the Whispering Wood  and the  battle of the Camps , Tyrion jests that his father should take comfort from the fact that Prince Rhaegar is still dead. [43] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 The green and bronze  Rhaegal , one of three  dragons  hatched by Daenerys, is named in honor of her brave brother who was killed on the green banks of the Trident. [44] 
 Rhaegar appears in Daenerys's vision in the  House of the Undying . He discusses with his wife,  Elia Martell , what he will name his son ( Aegon ) and his destiny. Rhaegar states that the boy is  the prince that was promised  and his is  the song of ice and fire . Dany also has a vision of Rhaegar's death at the  ruby ford  of the  Trident  at the hands of  Robert Baratheon . [12] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 While aboard the ship  Balerion ,  Arstan Whitebeard  tells Daenerys that Rhaegar was able and dutiful. While Rhaegar was bookish in his youth, he decided to become a warrior after reading about  something unknown  in his scrolls. [18]  Arstan later tells of the melancholy in Rhaegar's fondness of  Summerhall . [19] 
 While resting his head on a  weirwood  stump, Ser  Jaime Lannister  has a fever dream of five of his old  Kingsguard  brothers under King  Aerys II Targaryen . Beside them, crowned in mist and grief with his long hair streaming behind him, rides Rhaegar, who burns with a cold light of changing colors. Rhaegar's shade accuses Jaime of not protecting his family during the  sack of King's Landing . [32] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 While standing vigil over the funeral bier of his father, Lord  Tywin Lannister , Jaime recalls the day he said farewell to Rhaegar, in the yard of the  Red Keep . Rhaegar had wanted to call a council after  Robert's Rebellion  was suppressed, but the prince was instead killed at the  Trident . [17]  Jaime also recollects that when Lord  Owen Merryweather  failed to contain the rebellion Rhaegar could not be found, causing King Aerys to turn to Rhaegar's friend, Lord  Jon Connington , whom he raised to  Hand of the King . [45] 
 Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister  remembers wanting to marry Rhaegar after meeting him at the  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth , but Aerys refused Tywin's suggestion of betrothal. Cersei, Robert's widow, never forgave Robert for killing Rhaegar at the  ruby ford . [9] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Prior to Daenerys marrying  Hizdahr zo Loraq , Ser  Barristan Selmy  tells her that Rhaegar was very fond of  Elia Martell ; Dany thinks the word  fond  speaks volumes. [46]  During her wedding procession she looks about for her paramour,  Daario Naharis , hoping secretly that he will come and carry her off at swordpoint, as Rhaegar carried off his northern girl,  Lyanna Stark . [47] 
 Barristan later regrets having rescued King  Aerys II  from  Duskendale , as he thinks Rhaeger would have been a better king than  Jaehaerys II , Aerys II, or  Robert I . [22]  Barristan also regrets not having defeated Rhaegar in the lists at the  tourney at Harrenhal , as the victorious prince had proclaimed  Lyanna Stark  the  queen of love and beauty . [28] 
 Traveling south on the  Rhoyne ,  Tyrion Lannister  discovers the  sellsword  Griff is actually  Jon Connington , the exiled friend of Rhaegar and former  Hand of the King  to Aerys II. The youth called Young Griff is said to actually be Rhaegar's son,  Aegon Targaryen , widely believed to have been murdered by Ser  Gregor Clegane  during the  sack of King's Landing . The exiles claim that  Varys  had switched the infant Aegon with a  peasant baby  and taken Aegon to safety with  Illyrio Mopatis , and that Gregor killed the peasant child instead. [48] [27] 
 Jon discusses the issue of trust with Aegon, and then recalls that Rhaegar had been aware of Aerys's paranoia. [1]  After  landing in the stormlands  with the  Golden Company  to claim the  Iron Throne  for Aegon, Jon vows he will not fail Rhaegar's son as he failed his father. Jon thinks that Rhaegar's  eyes were a darker purple  than those of the boy. [11] 
 
 Quotes by Rhaegar 
 Rhaegar:   Aegon . What better name for a king? 
 Elia:  Will you make a song for him? 
 
 Rhaegar:  He has a song. He is  the prince that was promised , and his is  the song of ice and fire . There must be one more. The  dragon  has three heads. [12] 
  – Rhaegar and  Elia Martell  in  Daenerys Targaryen 's vision in the  House of the Undying 
 
 
 I will require a sword and armor. It seems I must be a warrior. [18] 
  – Rhaegar to  Willem Darry 
 
 
 When  the battle's  done I mean to call a  council . Changes will be made. I meant to do it long ago, but ... well, it does no good to speak of roads not taken. We shall talk when I return. [17] 
  – Rhaegar to  Jaime Lannister 
 Quotes about Rhaegar 
 The battle  screamed about Lord  Robert  and Prince Rhaegar both, and by the will of the gods, or by chance-or perhaps by design-they met amidst the shallows of  the ford . The two  knights  fought valiantly upon their destriers, according to all accounts. For despite his crimes, Prince Rhaegar was no coward. [7] 
  – writings of  Maester Yandel 
 
 
 In my dreams, I kill him every night. A thousand deaths will still be less than he deserves. [6] 
  –  Robert I Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 And Rhaegar ... how many times do you think he raped  your sister ? How many hundreds of times? I will kill every  Targaryen  I can get my hands on, until they are as dead as their  dragons , and then I will piss on their graves. [40] 
  –  Robert I Baratheon  to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Robert:  Treachery was a coin the  Targaryens  knew well.  Lannister  paid them back in kind. It was no less than they deserved. I shall not trouble my sleep over it. 
 Eddard:  You were not there. There was no honor in  that conquest . 
 
 Robert:  The  Others  take your honor! What did any Targaryen ever know of honor? Go down into  your crypt  and ask  Lyanna  about the dragon's honor! [40] 
  –  Robert I Baratheon  and  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 Your brother Rhaegar was the last dragon, and he died on the  Trident .  Viserys  is less than the shadow of a snake. [3] 
  –  Jorah Mormont  to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Rubies flew like drops of blood from the chest of a dying prince, and he sank to his knees in  the water  and with his last breath murmured a woman's name. [12] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen 's vision in the  House of the Undying 
 
 
 Daenerys:  Ser  Jorah  named Rhaegar the last dragon once. He had to have been a peerless warrior to be called that, surely? 
 Arstan:  Your Grace, the  Prince of Dragonstone  was a most puissant warrior, but... 
 Daenerys:  Go on. You may speak freely to me. 
 
 Arstan:  As you command. A warrior without peer... those are fine words, Your Grace, but words win no battles. [18] 
  –  Arstan Whitebeard  and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Rhaegar fought valiantly, Rhaegar fought nobly, Rhaegar fought honorably. And Rhaegar  died . [20] 
  –  Jorah Mormont  to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Arstan:  But I am not certain it was in Rhaegar to be happy. 
 Daenerys:  You make him sound so sour. 
 Arstan:  Not sour, no, but... there was a melancholy to Prince Rhaegar, a sense... 
 Daenerys:  Say it. A sense? 
 
 Arstan:  ... of doom. He was  born in grief , my queen, and that shadow hung over him all his days. [19] 
  –  Arstan Whitebeard  and  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Daenerys:  One day you must tell me all. The good and the bad. There is some good to be said of my  father , surely? 
 Barristan:  There is, your Grace. Of him, and those who came before him. Your grandfather  Jaehaerys  and his  brother , their father  Aegon , your  mother ... and Rhaegar. Him most of all. 
 
 Daenerys:  I wish I could have known him. [49] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  and  Barristan Selmy 
 
 
 Had any man ever been so beautiful? He was more than a man, though. His blood was the blood of  old Valyria , the blood of  dragons  and  gods . [9] 
  – thoughts of  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 Prince Rhaegar loved his Lady  Lyanna  and  thousands died  for it. [28] 
  – thoughts of  Barristan Selmy 
 Family 
 
                         Aegon V   Betha Blackwood       
                                                                                                             
     Duncan   Jenny of Oldstones   Jaehaerys II   Shaera   Daeron   Rhaelle   Ormund Baratheon           
                                                                         
                     Aerys II   Rhaella               House Baratheon     
                                                                                                                                     
 Rhaegar   Elia Martell   Shaena     stillborn child     Jaehaerys     Drogo   Daenerys   Hizdahr zo Loraq             
                                                                             
 Rhaenys   Aegon       Daeron   Aegon   Viserys   Rhaego 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   Erroneously listed  as  282 AC  in early prints of  The World of Ice & Fire , which has subsequently been corrected into  283 AC  in later prints. 
 
 ↑   The World of Ice & Fire  lists two contradicting dates. In "The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II", the announcement is stated to have been made in  280 AC , but in "The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring", the announcement of the tourney is stated as having been made in  281 AC . It has not yet been confirmed which date is correct. 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 24 , Bran II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 35 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: Robert's Rebellion. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  9.00   9.01   9.02   9.03   9.04   9.05   9.06   9.07   9.08   9.09   9.10     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1   12.2   12.3   12.4   12.5     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 17 , Cersei IV. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2   17.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2   18.3   18.4   18.5   18.6   18.7     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  19.00   19.01   19.02   19.03   19.04   19.05   19.06   19.07   19.08   19.09   19.10   19.11     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 42 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1   20.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 35 , Eddard IX. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 61 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Union Square Signing , July 14, 2011 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1   26.2     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Rhaegar Targaryen. 
 
 ↑  27.0   27.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 22 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1   28.2   28.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  To Be Continued (Chicago, IL; May 6-8) , May 06, 2005. 
 
 ↑  30.0   30.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  31.0   31.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The Year of the False Spring. 
 
 ↑  32.0   32.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Asshai.com Forum Chat , (July 27, 2008) 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 30 , Eddard VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Lyanna Stark. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑  40.0   40.1   40.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 15 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 68 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 27 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 18 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rhaegar_Targaryen&oldid=220260 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen Casualties of Robert's Rebellion Characters from the Crownlands Knights Members of Jaehaerys II Targaryen's court Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Nobles Princes of Dragonstone Royalists of Robert's Rebellion Singers Characters killed by Robert Baratheon Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
