
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Robar Royce 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Robar Royce  
 Ser Robar Royce - by Chris Dien. © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Alias 
Robar the Red Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Royce Rainbow Guard Culture 
 Valemen Born 
In  277 AC  (roughly) [1] , at  Runestone [2] Died 
In  299 AC , at Near  Storm's End Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) 
 For the historical king, see  Robar II Royce . 
 Ser  Robar Royce , also known as  Robar the Red , is a  knight  of  House Royce . He is the second son of Lord  Yohn Royce .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Robar Royce 
 Robar is "comely in a rough-hewn way". He is a good  tourney  warrior and a very good swordsman. [3] [4] 
 Catelyn Tully  thinks that Ser Robar and the company he keeps are young and foolish because they see war as a game. [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Robar attends the  Hand's tourney  in  King's Landing  with his father, Lord  Yohn Royce , and his elder brother, Ser  Andar . The Royces wear steel armor with bronze runes. Robar defeats  Lothor Brune  and is defeated in turn by Ser  Loras Tyrell . [6] 
 After Lord  Eddard Stark  decides to send a party to bring Ser  Gregor Clegane  to justice for raiding the  riverlands , he sends Ser Robar to the  kingswood  to inform King  Robert I Baratheon  and Yohn. [7] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 As a second son Robar has to make his own name, so he decides to support  Renly Baratheon 's claim to the  Iron Throne . Renly appoints him to his  Rainbow Guard  as  Robar the Red . When  Catelyn Stark  attends the feast near  Bitterbridge , Lord  Bryce the Orange  goads him into juggling daggers. On the eve of the battle between the brothers Renly and  Stannis Baratheon , Robar escorts Catelyn from Renly's camp to the sept and back. [3] 
 Seconds after the  murder of Renly , Robar the Red and  Emmon the Yellow  burst into the tent and find Renly's dead body in the arms of  Brienne the Blue . They both think that Brienne has killed Renly, and Ser Emmon and others attack her. Catelyn, who has seen the murder, is able to convince Ser Robar that Brienne is innocent. Robar tells Catelyn to take Brienne away and holds the attackers at bay. [3]  Catelyn and Brienne depart. Ser  Loras Tyrell  later kills Ser Robar and Ser Emmon Cuy in a red rage for their "failure" to protect the king. [8] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Loras Tyrell recalls that he killed Robar and Emmon in his rage. [9] [10] 
 
 Family 
 
   Yohn   Unknown       
                                                                       
   Andar   Robar   Waymar   Ysilla   Mychel Redfort     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Robar Royce  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , "Robar Royce". 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 14 , Brienne III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 22 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 67 , Jaime VIII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Robar_Royce&oldid=211974 "  
 Categories :  House Royce Characters from the Vale Knights Members of the Rainbow Guard Nobles Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Characters killed by Loras Tyrell   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
