
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Rodrik Harlaw 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Rodrik Harlaw  
 Rodrik Harlaw by Nacho Molina © FFG 
 Alias 
The Reader [1] Title 
Lord of Harlaw Lord of the Ten Towers The Harlaw of Harlaw Captain of  Sea Song Allegiance 
 House Harlaw Culture 
 ironborn Born 
At  Harlaw [2] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appendix) A Storm of Swords  (appendix) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Rodrik Harlaw  is the Lord of  Harlaw , Lord of the  Ten Towers , and head of  House Harlaw . He is nicknamed  Rodrik the Reader  because he is always reading, which is uncommon amongst the  ironborn . [1]  He is the captain of  Sea Song .
 Lord Harlaw's kin include  Boremund the Blue , Ser  Harras ,  Hotho , and  Sigfryd Harlaw . [1]  Other bannermen include Lords  Myre ,  Kenning ,  Stonetree , and  Volmark . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Rodrik 
 5   Quotes about Rodrik 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Rodrik Harlaw 
 An average-looking man, Rodrik has brown hair and eyes and a short, neat beard that is grey. He has requested a  Myrish  lense to assist with his vision. [1] 
 The cautious [4]  Rodrik enjoys reading. [1] 
 
 History 
 Rodrik unsuccessfully advised  Balon Greyjoy ,  Lord of the Iron Islands , not to rebel against King  Robert I Baratheon . Rodrik had two tall sons who died in the the  sea battle off Fair Isle  during  Greyjoy's Rebellion . [1] 
 When the  Faith of the Seven  was still tolerated in the  Iron Islands , Rodrik kept  septons  at  Ten Towers  to help care for his books, which he reads in the Book Tower. Rodrik's sister,  Gwynesse , insists that she should rule Ten Towers, as she is seven years his elder. [1] 
 Rodrik is a widower [2]  who does not expect to wed again, and his heir is his cousin  Harras , the Knight of  Grey Garden . [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the death of  Balon Greyjoy ,  King of the Isles and the North , Rodrik supports his niece, Balon's daughter  Asha , and calls her supporters to  Harlaw . [5]  Rodrik is visited by Lords  Baelor Blacktyde  and  Tristifer Botley  prior to the  kingsmoot  at  Old Wyk , which has been called by  Aeron Greyjoy . [1] 
 Rodrik assembles those faithful to Princess Asha at the  Ten Towers .  Hotho Harlaw , who wants Rodrik to marry his daughter, brings his lord a copy of Archmaester  Marwyn 's  Book of Lost Books . Rodrik tries to convince Asha not to attend the kingsmoot, fearing a bad outcome. He offers to name Asha as the heir to Ten Towers, with the  island of Harlaw  passing to Ser  Harras Harlaw , but she refuses. [1] 
 At the kingsmoot Rodrik is one of the first to call Asha's name. However, her uncle,  Euron Greyjoy , is chosen king instead. [6] 
 After the  taking of the Shields , Rodrik is spotted by Lord Captain  Victarion Greyjoy  and  Nute the Barber  talking with Lords  Gorold Goodbrother  and  Dunstan Drumm  in the yard at  Oakenshield Castle  near  Lord Hewett's Town . They discuss their fears that the gains from the battle are little compared to the enmity of the  Reach  they have earned. During the feast in  House Hewett 's hall, King Euron tells the ironborn they will conquer  Westeros . Rodrik is skeptical of Euron's planning as well as his claims of having sailed the  Smoking Sea  and seen  Valyria . With Euron giving  Greyshield  to Harras, Hotho feels that he is now Rodrik's heir. [4] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 At  Deepwood Motte , Asha recalls how after Euron was named the new king at the kingsmoot, Rodrik told her to flee while her uncle was busy. He also recommended she read Archmaester  Haereg 's  History of the Ironborn , which recounts the only time a kingsmoot decision was overturned. [7] 
 
 Quotes by Rodrik 
 Rodrik:  I prefer my history dead. Dead history is writ in ink, the living sort in blood. 
 Asha:  Do you want to die old and craven in your bed? 
 
 Rodrik:  How else? Though not till I'm done reading. [1] 
  – Rodrik and  Asha Greyjoy 
 
 
 Euron:  I have sailed the  Smoking Sea  and seen  Valyria . 
 Rodrik:  Have you? 
 
 Euron:  Reader, you would do well to keep your nose in your books. [4] 
  – Rodrik and  Euron Greyjoy 
 Quotes about Rodrik 
 Harlaw  was not the largest of the  Iron Islands , but it was the richest and most populous, and Lord Rodrik's power was not to be despised. [1] 
  –  Asha Greyjoy 's thoughts
 
 
 Lord Rodrik was seldom seen without a book in hand, be it in the privy, on the deck of his  Sea Song , or whilst holding audience. [1] 
  –  Asha Greyjoy 's thoughts
 Family 
 
                                               
                   Theomore   Six wives         
                                                     
                       Unknown Harlaw         
                                                                                                                                       
                     Unknown Harlaw                                         Sigfryd 
                                                                                                                               
                 Unknown Harlaw                     Unknown Harlaw   Unknown Serrett   Unknown Harlaw             
                                                                                                                                                     
   Gwynesse   Alannys   Balon Greyjoy               Rodrik   Harras       Hotho   Grandsons   Boremund     
                                                                                                                                                                             
   Rodrik Greyjoy   Maron Greyjoy   Asha Greyjoy   Theon Greyjoy   Son   Son           Daughter   Son   Son   Son     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.00   1.01   1.02   1.03   1.04   1.05   1.06   1.07   1.08   1.09   1.10   1.11   1.12     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 11 , The Kraken's Daughter. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Rodrik Harlaw. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 29 , The Reaver. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 1 , The Prophet. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 19 , The Drowned Man. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rodrik_Harlaw&oldid=212756 "  
 Categories :  House Harlaw Characters from the Iron Islands Followers of Asha Greyjoy Nobles Ship captains Supporters of Balon Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Euron Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
