
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Rodrik Cassel 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Rodrik Cassel  
 fan art by Amok 
 Alias 
Old Ser Rodrik Title 
 Ser Master-at-arms of  Winterfell Castellan  of  Winterfell Allegiance 
 House Cassel House Stark Culture 
 Northmen Died 
In  299 AC , at  Winterfell Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Ron Donachie ~  Season 1  -  Season 2 Fergus Leathem ~  Season 6 TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 6 
 Ser  Rodrik Cassel  is a  knight  from  House Cassel  and a member of the  Stark  household. He is the uncle of  Jory Cassel  and the master-at-arms of  Winterfell , [1]  in which capacity he trained  Robb Stark ,  Jon Snow , and  Theon Greyjoy  at arms. [2] [3]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by Ron Donachie and in a  Season 6  flashback by Fergus Leathem.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Rodrik Cassel 
 Ser Rodrik is a stout man, broad, with large white whiskers. [4]  He does not like music. [5]  He is loyal and courageous.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Rodrik Cassel at  Winterfell  - by Amok © 
 After the discovery of the  Valyrian steel  knife from the attempted assassination of  Bran Stark , Rodrik accompanies Lady  Catelyn Stark  to  King's Landing . They travel by sea. The voyage is a difficult one for Rodrik, who gets seasick and has to cut his whiskers because they become so soiled from vomit. [6] 
 In King's Landing, Rodrik brings the  Valyrian steel dagger  to Ser  Aron Santagar , the master-at-arms of the  Red Keep , in a vain hope that he might recognize the blade. Afterwards he and Catelyn meet  Petyr Baelish , who tells them that the knife that was used in the attempt on Bran was owned by  Tyrion Lannister . After telling Lord  Eddard Stark  about the attempt on Bran, the Starks decide that Catelyn should return to Winterfell. On the way back to Winterfell, at the  crossroads inn  in the  riverlands  they meet  Tyrion Lannister , who recognizes Catelyn. Because of what Baelish has told her, Catelyn holds Tyrion responsible for the attack on her son and takes the Imp prisoner.
 Catelyn takes Tyrion to the  Vale  where her sister,  Lysa Arryn  resides, in order to confuse her enemies. During the ride through the  Mountains of the Moon , they are twice set upon by the  Vale mountain clans . In the first skirmish Rodrik bests the group's champion, but is seriously wounded, suffering a deep gash in his left arm and a spear graze to his neck. He makes it to the  Bloody Gate  only by being tied to his saddle. There he is left to recover from his wounds. [7]  By demanding a  trial by combat  that his champion  Bronn  wins, Tyrion is able to regain his freedom. Lady Catelyn decides to join Robb at  Moat Cailin , and names Ser Rodrik castellan of Winterfell; he returns there via  White Harbor . [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 With Robb and Lady Catelyn in the south, Ser Rodrik holds the command of Winterfell together with Maester  Luwin . [9]  He kills  a man  he thinks is  Ramsay Snow , the Bastard of Bolton, after the Bastard had taken Lady  Donella Hornwood  and the  Hornwood  lands. [10] 
 When the  ironborn  attack  Torrhen's Square , Ser Rodrik gathers a force to end them, including most of the Winterfell garrison. The ironmen under  Dagmer Cleftjaw  let him  drive their force away , luring Rodrik further away from the castle. The ironborn under  Theon Greyjoy  then attack and  take Winterfell . [11]  Rodrik gathers more forces, marching from  Castle Cerwyn  to besiege Winterfell. [12] [13] 
 Rodrik parleys with Theon before the gates fo Winterfell, demanding his life and the castle, but Theon threatens to hang his daughter  Beth  if an attack begins. Before the battle can begin a force of  Bolton  men approach the besiegers, apparently to join them in the siege. Ser Rodrik goes to meet them but is slain by Ramsay Snow, along with most of his commanders, in  battle at Winterfell . [3] 
 
 Quotes 
 Bran:  No I won’t.  Robb 's to marry some  Frey  girl, you told me so yourself, and the Walders say the same. He'll have sons, and they'll be the lords of  Winterfell  after him, not me. 
 Rodrik:  It may be so, Bran, but I was wed three times and my wives gave me daughters. Now only  Beth  remains to me. My brother  Martyn  fathered four strong sons, yet only  Jory  lived to be a man. When he was slain, Martyn's line died with him. When we speak of the morrow nothing is ever certain. [14] 
 
 – Rodrik and  Bran Stark 
 
 Family 
 Ser Rodrik married three times. His wives gave him daughters but  Beth  is the only one who survived. [14] 
 
 
                                                       
       Martyn   Unknown   Rodrik   Three wives         
                                                                             
       Three sons   Jory   daughters   Beth     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 19 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 7 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 28 , Catelyn V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 18 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 28 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 35 , Bran V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 46 , Bran VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 56 , Theon V. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 16 , Bran II. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rodrik_Cassel&oldid=213122 "  
 Categories :  House Cassel Castellans Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the North Characters killed by Ramsay Snow House Stark retainers Knights Masters-at-arms Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
