
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Rorge 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Rorge     
 by Amok© 
 Alias 
Broken Nose The Mad Dog of Saltpans The  Hound  (II) Allegiance 
 Brave Companions Died 
In  300 AC , at the  inn at the crossroads Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Played by 
Unknown extra  Season 1 Andy Beckwith  Season 2  |  Season 4 TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 4 
 Rorge  is one of the criminals  Yoren  picked for the  Night's Watch  when he cleaned out the dungeons of  King’s Landing [1]  and is part of the group marching north to the  Wall . [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by Andy Beckwith.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   See also 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Rorge 
 Rorge is described as squat, bulky, and hairy, with black hair covering most of his body. He is also described as thick and powerful. [3]  He is missing his nose, and the nasal bar of his iron half-helm does not completely conceal the hole. [3] 
 
 History 
 According to semi-canon sources, Rorge ran a dog and bear fighting pit in  Flea Bottom . He found  Biter  as an orphan and raised him ferally to fight dogs in the pit. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Rorge is one of three known criminals imprisoned in the  black cells . [5]  He is taken from the black cells and is bound for the  Wall  in  Yoren 's band alongside  Arya Stark ,  Gendry ,  Hot Pie ,  Lommy Greenhands ,  Jaqen H'ghar , and  Biter , among others. Yoren considers him so dangerous that he keeps him chained in a wagon, along with Jaqen and Biter, for the journey to the Wall. [6] 
 When Yoren's band is attacked at the  Gods Eye  by Ser  Amory Lorch  and Yoren is killed, Arya saves Rorge's life, along with Biter and Jaqen H'ghar, by giving them an axe to break free as the area burns around their wagon. [7]  The three join the  Brave Companions  for a time, under  Vargo Hoat . They help Arya free the captive  northmen  during the  fall of Harrenhal , though Rorge and Biter do it reluctantly and only because Jaqen requested their help. [8] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Rorge is part of the foraging company who captures  Jaime Lannister  and  Brienne of Tarth  near  Maidenpool . He immediately threatens Brienne with rape and severely beats Jaime into submission. [3]  He later claims the bloodstained surcoat off the corpse of  Cleos Frey . [3] 
 On the way back to  Harrenhal , Rorge,  Shagwell , and  Zollo  attempt to rape Brienne. He argues with Zollo over who would rape Brienne first, but Jaime thwarts them. Jaime considers Rorge one of the three worst members of the Brave Companions. [9] 
 Rorge is one of the many Brave Companions who remain behind at Harrenhal after several failed foraging runs. He is present when Brienne is thrown into the bear pit and threatens Jaime once more when he comes back to save her, but  Vargo Hoat  orders him to stand down. [10] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the  capture of Harrenhal  and Vargo's death, Rorge went to the  inn at the crossroads  with  Shagwell ,  Timeon ,  Pyg  and other former  Brave Companions . Rorge killed the innkeeper. Then they parted: Shagwell, Timeon, and Pyg went to  Maidenpool , while Rorge travelled toward the town of  Saltpans  with  Biter  and other former Brave Companions.  [11]  Along the way Rorge finds and dons the  hound  helm once worn by  Sandor Clegane . He wears the helm during the brutal  raid on Saltpans , which results in Sandor being blamed for the attack. [12] [13] 
 Rorge encounters  Brienne of Tarth  at the inn at the crossroads. Brienne goads him by stating, " Shagwell  said they cut your manhood off when they took your nose." After Brienne slays Rorge in their duel, she is attacked by the savage Biter and then rescued by  Gendry . [13] 
 When the  brotherhood without banners  returns to the crossroads inn, the dog helm is taken from Rorge's body by  Lem Lemoncloak , who becomes the new Hound. [14] 
 
 Quotes 
 Come closer, and I'll shove that stick up your bunghole and fuck you bloody. [2] 
  – Rorge, to  Arya Stark 
 
 
 You're the ugliest woman I've ever seen, but don't think I can’t make you uglier. You want a nose like mine? Fight me, and you'll get one. And two eyes, that's too many. One scream out o' you, and I'll pop one out and make you eat it, and then I'll pull your fucking teeth out one by one. [9] 
  – Rorge, to  Brienne of Tarth 
 
 
 Brienne : We only seek one outlaw. The  Hound . 
 Meribald : So Ser  Hyle  told me. May  the Seven  save you, child. It's said he leaves a trail of butchered babes and ravished maids behind him. The Mad Dog of Saltpans, I have heard him called. [15] 
  -  Brienne of Tarth  and  Meribald 
 See also 
 Rorge/Theories 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 5 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Canadian Signing Tour (Vancouver) , January 13, 2006 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 1 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 19 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 31 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 20 , Brienne IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 31 , Brienne VI. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 37 , Brienne VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 42 , Brienne VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 25 , Brienne V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rorge&oldid=220229 "  
 Categories :  Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Crownlands Members of the Brave Companions Recruits of the Night's Watch Smallfolk Characters killed by Brienne Tarth   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
