
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Roslin Frey 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Roslin Frey  
 by Amok© 
 Allegiance 
 House Frey House Tully Culture 
 Rivermen Born 
In  282 AC  or  283 AC [1] Spouse 
 Edmure Tully Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Alexandra Dowling [2] TV series 
 Season 3 
 Roslin Frey  is the fifth daughter of Lord  Walder Frey , head of  House Frey . Her mother was  Bethany Rosby , the sixth wife of Walder Frey, being the only daughter born of that marriage. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is played by  Alexandra Dowling . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Storm of Swords 
 2.2   A Feast for Crows 
 2.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Roslin Frey 
 Roslin is small. She has very white skin, a pretty face with a small chin, delicate nose, and big brown eyes. Between her teeth she has a small gap. Her hair is brown and reaches her waist. [3] 
 Catelyn Tully  worries whether Roslin would be healthy enough to bear children as people from  Rosby  stock are not known for their robustness, but she is reassured by  Maester   Brenett . [3]  According to  Lothar Frey , Roslin has a gentle nature and a talent for music. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Lord  Edmure Tully  and Roslin by JB Casacop © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Robb Stark  had agreed to marry a daughter of Lord  Walder Frey , [5]  but he instead marries  Jeyne Westerling , an act which cause  House Frey  to angrily abandon the cause of the  King in the North . [6]  In order to return the  Freys  to the  Stark  and  Tully  alliance, Lord Walder insists that Lord  Edmure Tully  marry Roslin. [4] 
 Edmure thinks Roslin is sweet upon meeting her at the  Twins . [3]  During the wedding, however, Roslin cries and at the bedding she is very frightened. [7]  During the wedding feast the Freys  attack and kill or capture  their guests. According to Edmure, Roslin knew of the plans for this and was forced to go along despite her apprehension, thus the reason for her tears. [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Roslin has grown fond of Edmure. She is pregnant at the Twins and prays for a girl, fearing that if a son is born Lord  Walder  will execute Edmure. However, Ser  Jaime Lannister  promises Edmure at the  siege of Riverrun  that Roslin will be allowed to stay with him at  Casterly Rock . [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Ser  Jaime Lannister  mentions to Lord  Tytos Blackwood  after the surrender of  Raventree Hall  that after Roslin gives birth to her baby at the  Twins , she and the babe will be allowed to join  Edmure  at Casterly Rock. [9] 
 
 Family 
 
                   Walder   Bethany Rosby       
                                                                                                         
   Perwyn   Benfrey   Jyanna Frey   Willamen   Olyvar   Roslin   Edmure Tully       
                                             
           Della   Osmund   
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Roslin Frey  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   Cast of Game of Thrones on IMDB 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 49 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 59 , Catelyn IX. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 51 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 48 , Jaime I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Roslin_Frey&oldid=218124 "  
 Categories :  House Frey House Tully Characters from the Riverlands Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
