
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Samwell Tarly 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 For the Lord of Horn Hill during the reign of Aenys I Targaryen, see  Samwell Tarly (lord) 
   Samwell Tarly   
 Portrait by Amok© 
 Alias 
Sam Ser Piggy [1] Lady Piggy [1] Lord of Ham [1] Sam the Slayer [2] Black Sam [3] Allegiance 
 House Tarly Night's Watch Culture 
 Westeros Born 
In  283 AC [4] , at  Horn Hill Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (POV) A Feast for Crows  (POV) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
 John Bradley TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Samwell Tarly  is the eldest son of Lord  Randyll Tarly  and his wife  Melessa Florent . A recruit of the  Night's Watch  originally from  House Tarly , [1]  he is popularly called  Sam . He becomes a  POV character  in  A Storm of Swords . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by  John Bradley . [5] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Samwell 
 5   Quotes about Samwell 
 6   Family 
 7   See also 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Samwell Tarly 
 Samwell is very fat, with dark hair, pale eyes, and a large moon-shaped face. [1]   Jon Snow  originally estimates Samwell to weigh 20 stone (127 kg/280 lbs).  [1]  Samwell is fond of music and songs, and prefers books over weapons and soft fabrics over armor. He is also a timid craven, afraid of blood and violence. [1]  Although he is insecure and awkward, Sam is observant and intelligent.
 
 History 
 Samwell was the first child of  Randyll Tarly , Lord of  Horn Hill , and his wife,  Melessa Florent . Randyll, regarded as one of the finest military commanders in the  Seven Kingdoms , did everything in his power to raise his son into what he deemed a proper heir, but Samwell frustrated him at every opportunity, resisting every effort made to change his nature. A dozen masters-at-arms failed to toughen him. Attempts such as dressing him in his mother's clothes, forcing him to sleep in chainmail, and even being bathed in aurochs blood by  Qartheen   warlocks  failed to raise his valor. He even wept to see a chicken slaughtered. [1]  Lord Tarly had Sam thrown into a Horn Hill's pond to teach his son to swim, but Ser  Hyle Hunt  had to rescue the boy. [6] 
 Sam once accompanied his father on a trip to the  Arbor , but the  Redwyne  twins  Horas  and  Hobber  bullied him and Lord Randyll brought him back home. Sam's mother revealed to him that Randyll had meant for Samwell to remain at the Arbor, to serve as Lord  Paxter Redwyne 's page and squire. Had Sam pleased Paxter, he would have been betrothed to his daughter,  Desmera . [6] 
 After Lady Melessa bore her husband three girls, Samwell's brother  Dickon  was born. Dickon showed all of the physical vigor that Samwell lacked, and Randyll's attentions turned to raising his more promising younger son to take his place. For a time Sam was left to enjoy his music, food, and other soft pursuits, though Randyll forbade Samwell from traveling to  Oldtown  to study at the  Citadel , horrified at the notion of a member of  House Tarly  wearing a  maester 's chain. To discourage the boy, Randyll had Sam chained and manacled to a wall for three days. [7] 
 When Sam turned fifteen, his father bluntly told him that he was not worthy of their house's ancestral  Valyrian steel  sword,  Heartsbane , and that he must join the  Night's Watch  and renounce his family name so that he would not stand in the way of Dickon's inheritance. Failing that, Randyll promised that Sam would suffer an unfortunate hunting accident on the morrow. Sam chose to take the black. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Sam training with the new recruits at  Castle Black . 
 Samwell arrives at  Castle Black  shortly after  Jon Snow  and is immediately mocked for his size and timid nature. Ser  Alliser Thorne , the master-at-arms, joins in the mocking, nicknaming him "Ser Piggy" and doing nothing to prevent the other recruits from bullying him and hurting him during their training. Miserable, Sam finds a friend in Jon, with whom he shares his story. Jon takes pity on Sam and, to Alliser's annoyance, takes it upon himself to persuade (and threaten, when necessary) his fellow recruits to stop their abuse. [1] 
 Samwell is not helped by Alliser's training and remains an incompetent warrior. Because of this he is initially deemed not ready to take his vows and become a man of the Night's Watch with Jon and his fellow recruits. Jon, fearful of what will happen to Sam once he is no longer able to protect him, persuades Maester  Aemon  to allow him to join the stewards, convincing him that despite his uselessness as a soldier, Sam's literacy and intelligence may be of great value to the Watch. Aemon agrees, and gives Samwell a position assisting him in Castle Black's rookery and library, displacing  Chett . Despite having been born and raised into the  Faith of the Seven , Samwell decides to take his Night's Watch vow with Jon at a  heart tree . He is able to impress Lord Commander  Jeor Mormont  by noting some of the odd details of the corpses of  Othor  and  Jafer Flowers . He is among the group of friends who stop Jon from abandoning the Night's Watch and forswearing himself. [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Sam joins the  great ranging  which ventures  beyond the Wall , and he is placed in charge of the  ravens  as Lord Commander Mormont's aide. [9]  When the expedition stays a night at  Craster's Keep  he is befriended by  Gilly , a pregnant daughter-wife of  Craster . Gilly is fearful that if she has a boy, Craster will sacrifice it to the  Others . Samwell, unsure of what to do, turns to Jon for help, but there is nothing that Jon can do. [10] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Samwell facing an Other - by Amok © 
 When  wights  attack the Watch's camp at the  Fist of the First Men , Sam sends ravens to alert  Castle Black  and the  Shadow Tower . When the Watch loses the  fight at the Fist , however, Sam releases the rest of the ravens but forgets to include messages with them. [11]  He escapes with a group of about fifty survivors led by  Jeor Mormont . The march is hard on Sam and he is helped by his friends  Grenn  and  Small Paul , but eventually they are separated from the majority of the men. Paul, who carries Sam for much of the journey, is attacked and killed by an Other, but the weight of his body disarms it as he dies. Samwell, who is carrying a  dragonglass  dagger that was among the cache found by  Ghost , blindly stabs the Other, which dies instantaneously from the dragonglass blade. Killing the Other earns him the nickname "Sam the Slayer", although many say this mockingly as they do not believe his feat. [11] 
 Sam and Grenn rendezvous with the remaining survivors at Craster's Keep, where Gilly gives birth to a son. Shortly thereafter, violence erupts in the keep, with some Night's Watch men believing that Craster is holding out on the food he provided for the Watch, and others harboring mutinous intentions toward Lord Commander Mormont. Craster and Jeor are both killed in the  mutiny . Before Jeor dies he gives Sam his dying wish, that his son, the exiled Ser  Jorah Mormont , join the Watch. [2] 
 Sam is forced to flee, joined only by Gilly and her newborn.They make it as far as a village Sam believes to be  Whitetree  but are then attacked by wights, including a reanimated Small Paul, who attacks Sam first. Sam fights him off and stabs him with the dragonglass dagger, but it proves ineffective. Desperately, Sam strikes him with a piece of charred wood, which catches him on fire, killing him. They run, but are beset by additional wights, and are saved at the last moment by  Coldhands . [12] 
 Gilly and Sam are led back to the wall by Coldhands, who has informed them that there will be one in the  Nightfort  that must be sent to him. Entering the Nightfort through the castle's Black Gate, Samwell encounters  Bran Stark , along with  Hodor , and  Meera  and  Jojen Reed , all of whom he leads back to Coldhands. [13] 
 After leaving the Nightfort on the south side of the wall, Sam and Gilly join Ser  Denys Mallister  and  Bowen Marsh 's party, also en route to  Castle Black . They arrive after the  battle beneath the Wall , with  Stannis Baratheon  present and urging the swift election of a new Lord Commander and threatening to name one himself if none can achieve the required two-thirds majority. In the voting,  Janos Slynt  gains ground on the leading candidates,  Cotter Pyke  and Denys Mallister. Believing Janos would be a disastrous Lord Commander, Sam approaches Cotter and Denys independently, and lies to each regarding Stannis's intentions to name the other to the office, thus convincing them both to support Jon Snow as a compromise candidate, [14]  leading to Jon's election. [15] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
   Sam and  Gilly : "I would sooner have you than any princess..., but I can't". Art by cabepfir 
 One of Jon Snow's first acts as Lord Commander is to send Samwell south to the  Citadel  of  Oldtown , where he might study to become Maester  Aemon 's successor. Jon also sends  Dareon , whom he appoints as a recruiter for the Night's Watch, as well as Aemon and the  infant son  of  Mance Rayder , so as to deprive  Melisandre  of the chance to sacrifice them for their king's blood. He also sends  Gilly , separating her from  her own child , so that she might nurse Rayder's son. [7] [6]  Maester Aemon falls ill on the voyage, however, and stopping in  Braavos  they are forced to spend their coin on an inn and a healer. Aemon's condition worsens, though he briefly wakes and wishes to hear the stories of  Daenerys Targaryen 's  dragons  that are spreading throughout the city, having the revelation that Daenerys may be the true fulfillment of the prophecy of  the prince that was promised . [3] 
 Samwell urges Dareon to sing at the local taverns to earn money so that they might buy passage on a ship to Oldtown, but Dareon spends most of what he earns on wine and trade from the city's whores. Sam confronts Dareon in a brothel and accuses him of breaking his vows, and Dareon responds with his intention to abandon them and desert the Night's Watch, resulting in a fight whereupon Sam is pulled off of Dareon and thrown into a canal. He is pulled out by  Xhondo , who heard him speaking of dragons and had seen them in  Qarth . [16]  Xhondo offers them passage on his ship, the  Cinnamon Wind , in exchange for work and for some of the last of their possessions. [3] 
 Maester Aemon dies early in the journey from Braavos to Oldtown, and in mourning for his death Gilly briefly becomes a lover to Samwell. She names Mance's child " Aemon Steelsong " after Maester Aemon, [3]  and it is planned that upon landing at Oldtown she will be sent to Samwell's childhood home of  Horn Hill  with the story that her child is a  bastard  fathered by Sam. [7] 
 Samwell continues to the Citadel, where he goes to the  Seneschal's Court  to speak with the  Seneschal . Samwell is forced to wait a long while before he will be admitted. When his patience starts to run thin, he is approached by the acolyte  Alleras , who brings him to Archmaester  Marwyn  and  Leo Tyrell . Upon hearing Sam's story, Marwyn orders Sam to keep Aemon's prophecies and Daenerys's dragons a secret from the other  archmaesters . Marwyn immediately departs the city with the stated intention of going to Daenerys and becoming her maester. Alleras informs Sam that Marwyn's  glass candle  had anticipated Sam's arrival, and  Pate  gives Sam a cell near Archmaester  Walgrave 's chamber. [17] 
 
 Quotes by Samwell 
 Jon:  Have you seen the  Wall ? 
 Samwell : I'm fat, not blind. Of course I saw it, it's seven hundred feet high. [1] 
 
 –  Jon Snow  and Samwell
 
 
 Sam thought of all the trials that he and  Gilly  suffered,  Craster's Keep  and the death of the  Old Bear , snow and ice and freezing winds, days and days and days of walking, the  wights  at  Whitetree ,  Coldhands  and the tree of  ravens , the  Wall , the Wall, the Wall, the  Black Gate  beneath the earth. What had it all been for? No happy choices and no happy endings. [6] 
 
 – Sam's thoughts aboard the  Blackbird 
 
 
 The worst isn't done. The worst is just beginning, and there are no happy endings. [6] 
 
 – Samwell to  Dareon 
 
 
 No matter where he went in this wide world, his fears went with him. [16] 
 
 – Samwell's thoughts
 
 
 Samwell : I am Sam, from  Horn Hill . Lord  Randyll Tarly 's son. 
 Leo : Truly? I suppose you are. Your father told us all that you were dead. Or was it only that he wished you were? Are you still a craven? 
 
 Samwell : No. I went  beyond the Wall  and fought in battles. They call me Sam the Slayer. [17] 
  - Samwell and  Leo Tyrell 
 Quotes about Samwell 
 Nobody likes cravens. I wish we hadn't helped him. What if they think we're craven too? [1] 
  -  Grenn  to  Pypar 
 
 
 The world was full of cravens who pretended to be heroes; it took a queer sort of courage to admit to cowardice as Samwell Tarly had. [1] 
  –  Jon Snow 's thoughts
 
 
 I don't care if you're so scared you foul your breeches, and I don't care if a thousand  wildlings  are coming over the walls howling for your blood, you get  those birds  off, or I swear I'll hunt you through all seven hells and make you damn sorry that you didn't. [11] 
  -  Jeor Mormont  to Samwell
 
 
 You have no father. Only brothers. Only us. Your life belongs to the  Night's Watch , so go and stuff your smallclothes into a sack, along with anything else you care to take to  Oldtown . You leave an hour before sunrise. And here's another order. From this day forth, you will not call yourself a craven. You've faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime. You can face the  Citadel , but you'll face it as a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch. I can't command you to be brave, but I can command you to hide your fears. [7] 
  -  Jon Snow  to Samwell
 
 
 You're a man who appreciates cooking, Slayer. We need more o' your sort. [7] 
  -  Hobb  to Samwell
 
 
 The  Citadel  is not what it was. They will take anything these days.  Dusky dogs and Dornishmen ,  pig boys ,  cripples , cretins, and now a black-clad whale. And here I thought  leviathans  were grey. [17] 
  -  Leo Tyrell  to  Alleras 
 Family 
 
         Randyll   Melessa Florent       
                                                                     
 Samwell   Talla   Two other girls   Dickon   Eleanor Mooton   
   
 
 
 
 See also 
 The  Samwell Tarly article  on the TV show wiki. 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.00   1.01   1.02   1.03   1.04   1.05   1.06   1.07   1.08   1.09   1.10   1.11   1.12     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 26 , Jon IV. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 33 , Samwell II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 35 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑   See the  Samwell Tarly  calculation. 
 
 ↑   HBO: Game of Thrones: cast and crew 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1   6.2   6.3   6.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 15 , Samwell II. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 5 , Samwell I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 70 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 11 , Theon I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 23 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 18 , Samwell I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 46 , Samwell III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 56 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 78 , Samwell V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 79 , Jon XII. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 26 , Samwell III. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 45 , Samwell V. 
 
 
 v d e 
 POV Characters A Game of Thrones 
 Will 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Eddard 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Cressen 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Chett 
 Bran 
 Catelyn 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Davos 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Merrett 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Pate 
 Arya 
 Sansa 
 Jaime 
 Samwell 
 Cersei 
 Brienne 
 Aeron 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Arys 
 Victarion 
 Arianne 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Varamyr 
 Bran 
 Daenerys 
 Jon 
 Tyrion 
 Arya 
 Davos 
 Theon 
 Jaime 
 Cersei 
 Areo 
 Asha 
 Victarion 
 Quentyn 
 Griff 
 Melisandre 
 Barristan 
 Kevan 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Samwell_Tarly&oldid=213744 "  
 Categories :  House Tarly Characters from the Reach Nobles Novices of the Citadel POV characters Recruits of the Night's Watch Stewards of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
