
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Selyse Florent 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Selyse Florent 
 by Daria Tuzova © 
 Title 
Lady Queen Light of the North Allegiance 
 House Florent House Baratheon of Dragonstone Spouse 
 Stannis Baratheon Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Sarah MacKeever ~  Season 2  Tara Fitzgerald ~  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5 TV series 
 Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5 
   Selyse Florent Baratheon by Paul Phillips© 
 Selyse Florent , also known as  Selyse Baratheon , [1]  is the wife of Lord  Stannis Baratheon  and is the Lady of  Dragonstone . [2] [3]  Selyse is a fervent worshiper of  R'hllor  and a supporter of  Melisandre . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by Sarah MacKeever and Tara Fitzgerald.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Selyse 
 5   Quotes about Selyse 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Selyse Florent 
 Selyse is not a particularly attractive woman. She is as tall as her husband, thin, and has the  Florent  trait of too-large ears. Selyse has pale eyes, a sharp nose, and suffers from hair growth on her upper lip. Her mouth is stern and her voice a whip. [4] [5] 
 Selyse is married to Lord  Stannis  of  House Baratheon of Dragonstone . It is a loveless marriage, and the two have little patience for each other. They have one daughter,  Shireen , a sad little girl bearing a disfigurement from  greyscale .
 Selyse wears jewels [4]  and an ermine mantle. [6] 
 
 History 
 Selyse married Stannis in either  286 AC  or  287 AC . [7]  During their wedding Stannis's elder brother, King  Robert I Baratheon , deflowered  Delena Florent , a cousin of Selyse, in the bed made for the newlyweds. [8]  Delena became pregnant and gave birth to a boy,  Edric Storm . Selyse later said to her husband that because of this they were cursed and they had no sons. [5] 
 Stannis is not fond of his wife. [9]  They seldom sleep together and despite their hopes they have no sons, only a daughter,  Shireen .
 Some years before the start of  A Song of Ice and Fire , Lord  Varys  informed Robert's  small council  that Selyse had taken up with a  red priest . [9] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 When  Melisandre  attached herself to Stannis, Selyse became her most fervent supporter and immediately took to worshiping  R'hllor , the Lord of Light. Selyse's uncle, Ser  Axell Florent , soon converts as well. [10]  Selyse becomes Stannis's queen after he claims the  Iron Throne . Within the ranks of those who follow Stannis, those who believe in R'hllor are named  queen's men  after Selyse. [8]  Selyse's crown matches that of Stannis, red gold with points in the shape of flames. [10] 
 In order to discredit Stannis, the  small council  of King  Joffrey I Baratheon  spreads rumors that the father of Selyse's daughter,  Shireen , is not Stannis, but instead the fool  Patchface . [9] 
 When Stannis sails for  Storm's End , he leaves Selyse and her uncle, Ser  Axell Florent , on Dragonstone. [11]  Selyse's influence on her husband becomes greater after  Renly Baratheon  is  killed at Storm's End  and Selyse's family from  House Florent  go over to Stannis. Selyse's brother, Ser  Imry Florent , leads his fleet. Their hopes are shattered when the fleet is destroyed during the  Battle of the Blackwater . [12] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After the Battle of the Blackwater and the subsequent flight by Stannis's forces to  Dragonstone , Stannis remains enclosed in the  Stone Drum , unwilling to speak with anyone. Selyse, with the help of her uncle, Lord  Alester Florent , now the  Hand of the King , holds court during Stannis's self-imposed silence. [13]  Alester is later imprisoned for treason, however. [14] 
 Selyse tries to help Melisandre persuade Stannis to sacrifice  Robert I Baratheon 's bastard,  Edric Storm . The sacrifice of Edric would supposedly wake the stone dragon statue on Dragonstone.  Davos Seaworth , Stannis's new Hand, prevents this and has the boy shipped off to the  Free Cities . [15] 
 Davos advises that the real enemy is in the  north , based on a letter from Maester  Aemon  of the  Night's Watch . Stannis agrees and travels with Selyse and most of his remaining army to the  Wall . Selyse and Shireen remain at  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea  while Stannis travels west to  save Castle Black  from the invading  wildlings . [16] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Selyse remains at Eastwatch while Stannis is at  Castle Black . [17] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Selyse is unhappy with her accommodations at  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea  and her treatment by its commander,  Cotter Pyke . She demands that she be allowed to move into the  Nightfort  that was to be given to Stannis when repaired. When it is found that the Nightfort is habitable she leaves Eastwatch for Castle Black with her daughter, Shireen; the fool,  Patchface ; her serving girls and lady companions; and a retinue of knights, sworn swords, and men-at-arms fifty strong. She is given the royal chamber in the  King's Tower  of Castle Black. [10]   Jon Snow , the  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , thinks the flame-like crown she wears is the only warmth Selyse has.
 Selyse arranges the wedding of  Gerrick Kingsblood 's three daughters to her Hand of the Queen, Ser  Axell Florent , and her knights, Ser  Brus Buckler  and Ser  Malegorn of Redpool . She claims that Gerrick is the true  King of the Wildlings , descended in an unbroken male line from  Raymun Redbeard , a great  King-Beyond-the-Wall . However,  Tormund  states Gerrick is descended from Raymun Redbeard's  younger brother , not the king, and the kingship among the free folk is not hereditary. Selyse also wants  Val  to marry Ser  Patrek of King's Mountain , but is rebuffed. [18] 
 
 Quotes by Selyse 
 Selyse : No man may withstand him! 
 Stannis : Be quiet, woman. You are not at a nightfire now. [19] 
  – Selyse and  Stannis Baratheon , regarding  R'hllor 
 
 
 Selyse :  Robert  and  Delena  defiled our bed and laid a curse upon our union. This boy is the foul fruit of their fornications. Lift his shadow from my womb and I will bear you many trueborn sons, I know it. He is only one boy, born of your brother's lust and my cousin's shame. 
 Stannis : He is mine own blood. Stop clutching me, woman. [20] 
  – Selyse and  Stannis Baratheon , regarding  Edric Storm 
 
 
 A queen should be mistress beneath her own roof. [10] 
  - Selyse to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Let them die. [18] 
  – Selyse to  Jon Snow , regarding the  wildlings  stuck at  Hardhome 
 Quotes about Selyse 
 The red woman  had won her, heart and soul, turning her from the gods of the  Seven Kingdoms , both  old  and  new , to worship the one they called the  Lord of Light . [4] 
  - thoughts of  Cressen 
 
 
 You'd have to be a fool to want to bed Selyse Florent. [21] 
  –  Petyr Baelish  to  Pycelle 
 
 
 There must have been a blizzard the day she and  Stannis  wed. Huddled beneath her ermine mantle and surrounded by her ladies, serving girls, and knights, the  southron  queen seemed a frail, pale, shrunken thing. A strained smile was frozen into place on her thin lips, but her eyes brimmed with reverence. She hates the cold but loves the flames. He had only to look at her to see that. A word from  Melisandre , and she would walk into the fire willingly, embrace it like a lover. [22] 
  - thoughts of  Jon Snow 
 
 
 You lied about her beard. That one has more hair on her chin than I have between my legs. [1] 
  –  Val  to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 This queen never fails to disappoint. [18] 
  - thoughts of  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Afraid of being carried off, is she? I hope you never said how big me member is, Jon Snow, that'd frighten any woman. I always wanted me one with a mustache. [18] 
  -  Tormund  to  Jon Snow 
 Family 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                     
       Alester   Melara Crane   Axell                     Ryam                     Colin   Rylene   Rycherd Crane       
                                                                                                                                                                   
 Randyll Tarly   Melessa Alekyne Rhea   Leyton Hightower   Stannis Baratheon   Selyse Imry Erren   Hosman Norcross   Delena Omer Merrell                 
                                                                                                                                               
 Samwell Tarly   Talla Tarly   Two Daughters   Dickon Tarly           Shireen Baratheon           Alester Norcross   Renly Norcross   Edric Storm                         
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 53 , Jon XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 50 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑   See the calculation for  Stannis Baratheon's wedding to Selyse Florent 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 10 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2   10.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 44 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 42 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 26 , Arya VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 10 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 25 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 63 , Davos VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 75 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2   18.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 69 , Jon XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V, p 597. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V, p 599. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III, p 231. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 49 , Jon X. 
 
 
 v d e 
Royal consorts in  Westeros Targaryens 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Visenya Targaryen   (1–37) 1 
 Rhaenys Targaryen  (1–10) 
 Alyssa Velaryon  (37–42) 1 
 Ceryse Hightower  (42–45) 
 Alys Harroway  (42–44) 
 Tyanna of Pentos  (42–48) 
 Elinor Costayne  (47–48) 1 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (47–48) 1 
 Jeyne Westerling  (47–48) 
 Alysanne Targaryen  (48–100) 
 Aemma Arryn  (103–106) 
 Alicent Hightower  (106–129) 1 
 Helaena Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Jaehaera Targaryen  (131–133) 
 Daenaera Velaryon  (?–157) 2 
 Daena Targaryen  (161) 3 
 Naerys Targaryen  (172–c. 179) 
 Mariah Martell  (184–209) 2 
 Aelinor Penrose  (209–221) 2 
 Betha Blackwood  (233–259) 2 
 Shaera Targaryen  (259–262) 2 
 Rhaella Targaryen  (262–283) 1 
 Consorts to claimants 
 Rhaena Targaryen  (42–43) 
 Daemon Targaryen  (129–130) 
 Drogo  (298) 
 Hizdahr zo Loraq  (300–present) 
 
 Baratheons 
 Consorts of the  Iron Throne 
 Cersei Lannister  (283–298) 1 
 Margaery Tyrell  (300–present) 4 
 Consorts to rival kings 
 Selyse Florent  (299–present) 
 Margaery Tyrell  (299) 1 
 
 Independence movements 
 Greyjoys ,  Kings of the Iron Islands 
 Alannys Harlaw  (289, 299) 1 
 Starks ,  Kings in the North 
 Jeyne Westerling  (299) 1 
 
 
 1  Survived as Queen Dowager. 
 2  Unknown whether the Queen outlived her King. 
 3  Marriage was annulled. 
 4  Outlived one king, but subsequently married his successor. 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Selyse_Florent&oldid=213769 "  
 Categories :  House Florent House Baratheon of Dragonstone Characters from the Reach Noblewomen Royal consorts   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
