
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Meribald 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
     Meribald 
 
 Title 
 Septon Allegiance 
 Faith of the Seven Born 
In  247 AC  or  248 AC [1] , at the  riverlands Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Played by 
Ian McShane (as Ray) TV series 
 Season 6 
 Meribald  is a wandering  septon  of the  riverlands . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones ,  Ian McShane  portrays a similar character named Brother Ray.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Meribald 
 Meribald is six feet tall and walks with a slight hunch. He has large, leathery hands and large, bare, weathered feet. His face is lined and windburnt with thick grey hair. [2] 
 Meribald's usual path takes him around most of the countryside, circling the region from  Maidenpool  to Maidenpool, and is said to take no less than half a year per circuit. Because he usually ministers to the  smallfolk  in market towns, small villages, and holdfasts, he is not as familiar with the  Trident  and its castles as he is with the smallroads, tracks, hedges, and unmapped rills and caves. [2] 
 Meribald travels alone in most of his walks with only his dog,  Dog , as his companion. Normally, he also takes a  donkey  to carry his heavy load, including packs of food and goods he means to give to the hungry and poor of the villages he passes by. [2] 
 
 History 
 Meribald was born and has lived his entire life in the  riverlands . As a boy, Meribald went to fight in the  War of the Ninepenny Kings  with his brothers. His older brother,  Willam , agreed to jokingly take Meribald as his squire. During the war, however, both Willam and another brother,  Robin , died from a fever. His last brother,  Owen , was killed in battle and Owen's friend,  Jon Pox , was hanged for rape. Meribald may have become a  broken man  because of this. When he returned to the riverlands, he joined the  Faith of the Seven , but used his position as a world-savvy septon to convince young women to have sex with him. He now walks barefoot as penance for these sins he committed as a youth. [2] 
 He cannot read or write, but he knows  The Seven-Pointed Star  by memory which seemed to make him capable enough to minister the Faith to  smallfolk . He has been walking the countryside of the riverlands as a wandering septon in exchange for food and shelter for nearly forty years. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Septon Meribald guides  Brienne of Tarth ,  Podrick Payne , and Ser  Hyle Hunt  through the riverlands to  Saltpans , where he took his first stop on his circuit. Along the way, he spooks Podrick with stories of mud along the  Trident 's mudflats that can swallow up ignorant travelers and tales of a large, monstrous, man-eating, demon-like  she-wolf  that leads a pack of savage wolves prowling throughout the Trident. Meribald also tells his own story, explaining how he came to be a septon and his duties to the  smallfolk  of the riverlands. [2] 
 Meribald guides Brienne and her companions to the  Quiet Isle  to meet the  Elder Brother . [3]  The  brotherhood without banners  allows Meribald to continue his journey [4]  after Brienne's battle with  Biter  at the  inn at the crossroads . [5] 
 
 Quotes 
 Hyle : The  War of the Ninepenny Kings ? 
 Meribald : So they called it, though I never saw a king, nor earned a penny. It was war, though. That it was. [2] 
  -  Hyle Hunt  and Meribald
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Meribald  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 25 , Brienne V. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 31 , Brienne VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 42 , Brienne VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 37 , Brienne VII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Meribald&oldid=208716 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Riverlands Septons Smallfolk Veterans of the War of the Ninepenny Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
