
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lemore 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Lemore  
 Art by  Max Stocks 
 Alias 
Lady Lemore Title 
 Septa Allegiance 
 Faith of the Seven House Targaryen Born 
In  259 AC  or before [1] Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Lemore , also known as  Lady Lemore , is a  septa  of the  Faith of the Seven  and the spiritual tutor for  Young Griff .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Lemore 
 4   Quotes about Lemore 
 5   Theories 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
   Septa Lemore by Marc Fishman 
 See also:  Images of Lemore 
 Despite being over forty years old, Lemore is described as a handsome woman and has an outgoing friendly personality. She has brown hair and stretch marks on her belly from bearing a child.
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Lemore is a crewmember of the  Shy Maid , and educates  Young Griff  on the  Faith of the Seven . During the ship's journey  Tyrion Lannister  enjoys watching her frequently bathing naked in the clean water of the river  Rhoyne . He believe she was not always a septa, or at least not a chaste one; as she bathes Tyrion notices stretch marks on her belly, implying she has given birth at some point. [2] 
 When the  Shy Maid  reaches  Volantis  Lemore changes out of her white septa's robes and disguises herself as a merchant's daughter, as the city's main faith is  R'hllor . While Tyrion has deduced  Griff  and Young Griff's true identities, he cannot figure out who Lemore is or why she travels with the others. [3] 
 Clad again in her septa's robes, Lemore accompanies Young Griff, actually Aegon Targaryen, to the  Stormlands . [4] 
 
 Quotes by Lemore 
 The Mother  and  the Father  made us in their image, Hugor. We should glory in our bodies, for they are the work of gods. [2] 
  – Lemore to  Hugor Hill 
 
 
 You are not the only one who must needs hide. [3] 
  – Lemore to  Aegon Targaryen 
 Quotes about Lemore 
 Still, a curious man might wonder why some  sellsword's whelp  would need a soiled septa to instruct him in  the Faith , or a  chainless maester  to tutor him in history and tongues. [5] 
  –  Hugor Hill  to  Griff 
 Theories 
 Main article:  Lemore/Theories 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Lemore  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 14 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 22 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 61 , The Griffin Reborn. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 18 , Tyrion V. 
 
 
 v d e 
Protectors and tutors of  Young Griff 
 Griff 
 Haldon Halfmaester 
 Ser  Rolly Duckfield 
 Septa  Lemore 
 Hugor Hill / Yollo 
 Ysilla 
 Yandry 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Lemore&oldid=210636 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Westeros Courtiers and followers of Aegon VI Targaryen Septas   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
