
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Shae 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Shae 
 Art by Amok © 
 Born 
In  280 AC  or  281 AC [1] Died 
In  300 AC , at  King's Landing Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Sibel Kekilli TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3 
 
|  Season 4 
 Shae  is a young camp follower who comes into the service of  Tyrion Lannister . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  she is portrayed by  Sibel Kekilli .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Shae 
 5   Quotes about Shae 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Shae 
 Shae is short and very pretty, with large dark eyes and black hair. She is around eighteen years old. [2] 
 
 History 
 Shae ran off when her father attempted to turn her into his kitchen wench and his whore. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Shae serves as a camp follower in Lord  Tywin Lannister 's army when  Bronn  brings her to  Tyrion Lannister , who is looking for a female companion before the  battle on the Green Fork . [2]  Tyrion sleeps with her both before and after the battle, taking a liking to her, and he decides to take her with him to  King's Landing  despite his father Tywin's explicit command not to take the whore to court. [4] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Shae with  Tyrion Lannister  - by algesiras © 
 Upon arrival in King's Landing, Shae is set up at a house in the city. Tyrion cannot bring her to court, already defying his father in bringing her to the capital. Tyrion makes frequent use of Shae's services, relegating her to a role as his exclusive companion, and he finds his feelings for her are very strong. Tyrion believes he has finally gotten over his first wife,  Tysha , and his need for whoring. [5] 
 Recognizing that Shae's presence in King's Landing is a weapon his adversaries could use against him, Tyrion takes pains to keep her safe and secret, though her presence is immediately known to  Varys , who on several occasions facilitates their trysts. Tyrion keeps her in a manse in the city where they can rendezvous in secret.
 With the approach of  Stannis Baratheon 's army and the breaking out of several riots in the city, Tyrion comes to fear for Shae's safety and moves her to the  Red Keep . He finds her a cover job as a maid of  Lollys Stokeworth , allowing him to continue to see her. [3] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After Tyrion is married to  Sansa Stark , Shae is made a maid of Sansa's so that she can continue to be close to Tyrion. Tyrion is worried about her safety, however, and is torn between sending her away and marrying her off in order to avoid Queen  Cersei Lannister 's suspicions. Eventually he decides to arrange a marriage between Shae and Ser  Tallad . [6]  Before he can act, however, Tyrion is charged with  murdering  King  Joffrey I Baratheon .
 During Tyrion's trial, Shae betrays Tyrion by lying that he conspired with Sansa to murder King Joffrey and Lord Tywin, revealing the full and intimate details of their affair - including her pet name for him as her "Giant of Lannister". In exchange for her testimony Cersei offered her a manse in King's Landing and a knight to wed.
 Shae is in Lord Tywin's bed when Tyrion enters Tywin's chambers, after his escape from the  black cells . He strangles her to death with his father's golden chain of office. [7]  Her death by strangulation in what had once been Tyrion's bed is ironic in light of Tywin's earlier threat to Tyrion, "You are  done  with whores. The next one I find in your bed, I'll hang." [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Shae's body is discovered in the bed where Tyrion had left her. Cersei orders the disposal of her corpse to be handled by the  Kettleblacks  and that her presence in the chambers of the  Hand of the King  be kept secret. [9] 
 
 Quotes by Shae 
   Shae - by Pojypojy © 
 My mother named me Shae. Men call me... often. [2] 
  – Shae to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Shae : M'lord looks fearsome. 
 Tyrion : M'lord looks a dwarf in mismatched armor, but I thank you for your kindness. [2] 
 
 – Shae and  Tyrion Lannister , before the  battle on the Green Fork 
 
 Quotes about Shae 
 Shae may only be a whore, but I am faithful to her after my fashion. [5] 
  – thoughts of  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 I'm free of  Tysha  now. She's haunted me half my life, but I don't need her any more, no more than I need  Alayaya  or  Dancy  or  Marei , or the hundreds like them I've bedded with over the years. I have Shae now. Shae. [5] 
  – thoughts of  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 You knew what  she was . [10] 
  –  Varys  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Shae  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 62 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 29 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 58 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 77 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 1 , Tyrion I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Shae&oldid=218560 "  
 Categories :  Characters killed by Tyrion Lannister House Stokeworth retainers Prostitutes Smallfolk Camp followers Tyrion Lannister's household Followers and collaborators of Cersei Lannister   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
