
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Shagga 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Shagga son of Dolf 
 by Amok© 
 Allegiance 
 Stone Crows Culture 
 Vale mountain clans Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Mark Lewis Jones 
 Shagga , known as  Shagga son of Dolf  because of  his father , [1]  is a member of the  Stone Crows , one of the  mountain clans  that dwell in the  Mountains of the Moon . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by Mark Lewis Jones. [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Shagga 
 4   Quotes about Shagga 
 5   References and Notes 
 6   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Shagga 
   Shagga© by  Thaldir  Copyright by Fantasy Flight Games 
 A large hairy man, Shagga has a deep, deadly voice and prefers to fight with a weapon in each hand. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 After  Tyrion Lannister  wins his  trial by combat  in the  Eyrie , Shagga is in  Gunthor's  band of  Stone Crows  that Tyrion encounters in the  Mountains of the Moon . [4]  Shagga agrees to serve Tyrion for pay, and fights in the  battle on the Green Fork  between the  westermen  under Lord  Tywin Lannister  and the  northmen  under Lord  Roose Bolton . Shagga survives several arrows, but is saddened by the death of his friend,  Conn . [5] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 When Tyrion is sent to  King's Landing  to act as  Hand of the King , Shagga goes with him as one of Tyrion's key guards. Tyrion leverages Shagga's imposing physical presence in his interrogation of Grand Maester  Pycelle . [6] 
 Before the  Battle of the Blackwater  Shagga and the rest of the mountain clansmen who accompanied Tyrion to King's Landing are sent to the  kingswood  in order to raid and delay  Stannis Baratheon 's forces. [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 After the Battle of the Blackwater, Shagga and his clansmen remain in the kingswood, preferring to stay instead of returning home to the Mountains of the Moon. [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Shagga is listed as a clan chief of the Stone Crows, leading a band in the kingswood. [9] 
 
 Quotes by Shagga 
 Shagga son of  Dolf  will chop off their manhoods and feed them to the crows. [1] 
  – Shagga to  Tywin Lannister  regarding  northmen 
 
 
 Shagga : Shagga wants this woman. 
 Timett : Shagga wants every whore in this  city of whores . 
 
 Shagga : Yes. Shagga would give her a strong child. [6] 
  – Shagga and  Timett 
 Quotes about Shagga 
 Shagga son of  Dolf  is the one who looks like  Casterly Rock  with hair. [1] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister  to  Tywin Lannister 
 
 
 Telling Shagga and  Timett  how to pillage is like telling a rooster how to crow. [10] 
  -  Tyrion Lannister  to  Tywin Lannister 
 References and Notes 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 56 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑   Game of Thrones: Cast so far  on Liftingfaces 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 39 , Eddard X. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 42 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 62 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Shagga article  on the Game of Thrones wikia.
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Shagga&oldid=177112 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Vale Members of the mountain clans of the Vale Tyrion Lannister's household   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
