
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Shagwell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Shagwell    
 
 Alias 
Shagwell the Fool Allegiance 
the  Brave Companions Died 
In  300 AC , at near the  Whispers Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (appears) 
 Shagwell , better known as  Shagwell the Fool , is a psychotic  jester  and member of the  Brave Companions  mercenary company.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Clash of Kings 
 3.2   A Storm of Swords 
 3.3   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Shagwell 
 Shagwell wears green and pink motley. [1]  He tells cruel jokes, and fights with a three-headed flail. [2]  He is said to be half-mad. [3] 
 Jaime Lannister  considers Shagwell one of the three worst members of the Brave Companions. [4] 
 
 History 
 There are rumours said that Shagwell once killed a man for not laughing at one of his japes. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Shagwell the fool with two severed heads. - by artist Rafal Hrynkiewicz. © Fantasy Flight Games. 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Shagwell is one of the many members of the Brave Companions mercenary company that arrives at  Harrenhal  under the employ of  Tywin Lannister . He participates in the slaughter of Ser  Amory Lorch 's men, in which he hacks off the heads of two dead knights and swings them by their hair to talk to each other as part of a puppet show. [3] 
 Shagwell spreads the story of the 'weasel soup' and  Arya Stark 's involvement in  Harrenhal's takeover , which prompts Arya to consider adding him to her  prayer kill list , but her fear of Shagwell negates this thought. [3]  He is the one who presents Arya to Lord  Roose Bolton  upon the latter's arrival at Harrenhal as the 'weasel who made the soup', and later kicks Amory Lorch into the bear pit. [3] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Shagwell is part of the foraging company who captures Ser  Jaime Lannister  and  Brienne of Tarth  near  Maidenpool , kicking Jaime to the ground so that  Zollo  can maim him. [2] 
 On the way back to  Harrenhal , Shagwell, Zollo, and  Rorge  attempt to rape Brienne, but Jaime thwarts them. [4] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the scattering of the Brave Companions following  Vargo Hoat 's death, Shagwell,  Timeon , and  Pyg  splinter off and go to  Maidenpool  to find passage out of the area, but cannot get near a ship.  Dick Crabb  cons Shagwell into buying a map to the  Whispers , which he says is a popular smugglers' cove. The Whispers is deserted, and the group camps in the ruins until Brienne, Dick, and  Podrick Payne  arrive. Shagwell jumps down from above Dick and kills him with two blows of his flail. Then he and Timeon begin talking to Brienne in an attempt to distract her while they surround her. As Brienne kills Timeon and Pyg, Podrick throws stones at Shagwell until he yields. Brienne makes him dig a grave for Dick. After he completes digging, he lunges at Brienne with a rock, but she stabs him to death with a dagger. [5] 
 
 Quotes 
 You mustn’t hurt sweet Shagwell, I’m too droll to die. [5] 
  – Shagwell, to  Brienne of Tarth 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 21 , Jaime III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 31 , Jaime IV. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 20 , Brienne IV. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Shagwell&oldid=208244 "  
 Categories :  Jesters Members of the Brave Companions Mercenaries Outlaws Smallfolk Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters killed by Brienne Tarth   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
