
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Shireen Baratheon 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Shireen Baratheon   
 Shireen Baratheon by Amok© 
 Title 
Princess Allegiance 
 House Baratheon of Dragonstone Born 
In  289 AC [1] , at  Dragonstone [2] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Kerry Ingram TV series 
 Season 3  |  Season 4  |  Season 5 
 Shireen Baratheon  is a member of  House Baratheon of Dragonstone , and is the daughter and only child of Lord  Stannis Baratheon  and Lady  Selyse Florent . [3]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , she is portrayed by Kerry Ingram.
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.5   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Shireen 
 5   Quotes about Shireen 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Shireen Baratheon 
 Shireen is regarded as a sweet child, but she is not considered pretty. She has blue eyes, but inherited her father's square, jutting jaw, and her mother's large ears. [4] [5]   Greyscale  has left half of her left cheek and most of her neck covered in cracked and flaking, gray and black skin, which is stony to the touch. When introduced in  A Song of Ice and Fire , Shireen is nine years old. [4] 
 
 History 
 When Shireen was an infant, she suffered from  greyscale . The disease almost killed her, and left her disfigured.  Cressen , Dragonstone's  maester , feels that her sadness is a mark of his failure. [4] 
 As the daughter and heir of Stannis, Shireen resides in  Dragonstone  and is educated by Maester Cressen. She is usually seen in the company of  Patchface , their mad  fool  that she calls "Patches", though his ravings sometimes frighten her. Shireen has also suffered from nightmares for years. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Renly Baratheon  refers to Shireen as his brother  Stannis's  "ugly daughter". [6] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Shireen playing with  Patchface , art by M.Luisa Giliberti© 
   Princess Shireen, art by Sara Biddle© 
 Shireen is on  Dragonstone  with her father, Stannis, and mother,  Selyse . Maester  Cressen  pities the sad-looking child, and has his assistant, Maester  Pylos , show her the  white raven  that has arrived from the  Citadel  to announce the onset of autumn. Shireen tells Cressen about her nightmares that  dragons  are coming to eat her, and he tries to reassure her, saying that the  stone dragons  of Dragonstone can never come to life. She is uncertain, as  Melisandre  has said the  red comet  is "dragonsbreath", and Cressen reassures her that it is just a comet and will soon be gone. [4] 
 Cressen suggests to Stannis that Shireen be betrothed to Lord  Robert Arryn  and sent to the  Eyrie  to make an alliance with Lady  Lysa Arryn , whom he thinks will want vengeance for Lord  Jon Arryn 's death, but Stannis is unsure of the idea. [4] 
 Stannis writes a letter to the lords of the  Seven Kingdoms , informing them that  Joffrey ,  Myrcella , and  Tommen Baratheon  are the offspring of incest between Queen  Cersei Lannister  and her brother, Ser  Jaime Lannister . In retaliation, the  small council  under  Tyrion Lannister  discusses schemes to spread rumors that Shireen is not Stannis's child, expecting that this would hurt Stannis's sense of honor. These schemes make use of Shireen's looks: Tyrion proposes that Shireen's great-uncle, Ser  Axell Florent , could be the father because she has big  Florent  ears, but Lord  Petyr Baelish  prevails with his suggestion that  Patchface  being the father of Shireen would make for a more juicy tale. He refers to them looking somewhat alike with their speckled, half-frozen faces, and also that the fool is close with the girl. The rumor, strongly supported by Cersei, is meant to be spread via prostitutes in Petyr's brothels, and with the help of Lord  Varys  through alehouses and pot-shops. [7] 
 Later, Renly refers to this rumor about Shireen's parentage during his meeting with Stannis at  Storm's End , causing great offense. [8] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Shireen Baratheon © FFG 
 With Stannis having declared himself  King of Westeros , Shireen is now referred to as a princess. [9]  She often plays with her  bastard  cousin,  Edric Storm , in Aegon's Garden at Dragonstone, and grows very fond of him.  Davos Seaworth  notes Shireen is much happier around Edric. [10]  Shireen, Edric, and  Devan Seaworth  learn from Maester Pylos. [5] 
 While attempting to bring peace between Stannis and King Joffrey I, Lord  Alester Florent  suggests that Shireen be betrothed to Joffrey's younger brother, Prince Tommen. Alester is imprisoned for negotiating with Stannis's enemies without his approval. [11] 
 Stannis's army and retinue travels from Dragonstone to the  Wall  to respond to the  wildling  threat. At the Wall, he leaves Shireen at  Eastwatch-by-the-Sea  with her mother, while his army  marches to Castle Black . [12] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Shireen, Selyse, and Patchface are brought to  Castle Black , where the girl is intrigued by the giant  Wun Wun . [13] 
 After  Alys Karstark  marries  Sigorn  of the  Thenns , Shireen dances with Ser  Brus Buckler  during the wedding feast. [14] 
 Val  of the  free folk  is frightened of Shireen due to her  greyscale  scars, and tells  Jon Snow  that the child is "not clean" and should be killed or she will put others in danger. Jon is horrified by Val's statement, and is grateful that Selyse and her  queen's men  did not hear it. Val refuses to let  Gilly's baby  and his  wet nurses  stay in the same tower as "the dead girl". [15] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Stannis orders Ser  Justin Massey  to travel from the  crofters' village  to  Braavos  to recruit sellswords. Stannis instructs Justin to support Shireen's claim to the  Iron Throne  if the king were to die in battle. [16] 
 
 Quotes by Shireen 
 I had bad dreams. About the  dragons . They were coming to eat me. [4] 
  - Shireen to  Cressen 
 
 
 Wun Wun : Kneel queen. Little queen. 
 Shireen : He's a  giant ! A real true giant, like from the stories. But why does he talk so funny? 
 
 Jon : He only knows a few words of the  Common Tongue  as yet. In their own land, giants speak the  Old Tongue . [13] 
  -  Wun Wun , Shireen, and  Jon Snow 
 Quotes about Shireen 
 Her name was Shireen. She would be ten on her next  name day , and she was the saddest child that Maester Cressen had ever known. [4] 
  - thoughts of  Cressen 
 
 
 This is the king's true heir. Shireen will one day sit the  Iron Throne  and rule the  Seven Kingdoms . [13] 
  -  Selyse Florent  to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 The  maesters  may believe what they wish. Ask a  woods witch  if you would know the truth. The  grey death  sleeps, only to wake again. The child is not clean! [15] 
  - Val to  Jon Snow 
 
 
 Justin : Your Grace, if you are dead — 
 Stannis : — you will avenge my death, and seat my daughter on the  Iron Throne . Or die in the attempt. 
 
 Justin : On my honor as a knight, you have my word. [16] 
  -  Justin Massey  and  Stannis Baratheon 
 Family 
 
                 Ormund   Rhaelle Targaryen         
                                                   
                     Steffon   Cassana Estermont       
                                                                                             
 Various women   Robert I   Cersei Lannister   Renly I   Margaery Tyrell [17]   Stannis I   Selyse Florent               
                                                                                                 
           Joffrey I   Margaery Tyrell [17]   Tommen I   Myrcella       Shireen     
                                                                                                                         
 Mya Stone   Bella   Gendry   Edric Storm   Barra   Unknown twins   9 Others 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Shireen Baratheon  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Shireen Baratheon. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.7     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 54 , Davos V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 27 , Eddard VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 31 , Catelyn III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 10 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 25 , Davos III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 75 , Samwell IV. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 44 , Jon IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 49 , Jon X. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 53 , Jon XI. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     The Winds of Winter ,  Chapter  ,  Theon I . 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   Margaery Tyrell married 1st Renly, 2nd Joffrey, 3rd Tommen 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Shireen_Baratheon&oldid=218756 "  
 Categories :  House Baratheon House Baratheon of Dragonstone Characters from the Crownlands Noblewomen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
