
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 ‎ Skahaz mo Kandaq - by Sir-Heartsalot © 
 Alias 
The Shavepate Skahaz Shavepate Allegiance 
 House of Kandaq House Targaryen Shavepates Brazen Beasts Culture 
 Ghiscari Born 
At  Meereen Book(s) 
 A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Skahaz mo Kandaq , also known as the  Shavepate , is a  Ghiscari  noble of the city of  Meereen .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes by Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 4   Quotes about Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 Daenerys Targaryen  describes Skahaz as having  an odious face— a beetled brow, small eyes with heavy bags beneath them, a big nose dark with blackheads, oily skin that looked more yellow than the usual amber of Ghiscari. [1] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 After  Daenerys Targaryen  takes Meereen, Skahaz becomes one of her councilors and shaves his black and red Ghiscari hair (which is often worn into fanciful shapes by  Ghiscari ) to show he has abandoned Old Meereen to serve the New Meereen and several of his followers do the same. [1] 
 Under Daenerys's orders Skahaz creates the  Brazen Beasts , an organization composed of  Shavepates  and freedmen that serves as a city watch to Meereen. The beasts wear brass masks in the shapes of fanciful beasts to protect their identities from the  Sons of the Harpy  who promised death to the families of any man who serves the Dragon Queen. Skahaz argues with Daenerys on several occasions over her refusal not to harm any of the  cupbearer/hostages .
 After Daenerys's marriage to  Hizdahr zo Loraq , [2]  and her departure from Meereen, Skahaz is removed as commander of the Brazen Beasts by Hizdahr. [2]  Skahaz later suspects that Daenerys's new husband tried to poison her at the arena. [3]  Skahaz takes his suspicions to Ser  Barristan Selmy  that Strong  Belwas  had eaten  poisoned locusts  that may have been meant for Daenerys and accuses Hizdahr of being  the Harpy . [4]  Selmy, Skahaz and  Grey Worm  seize Hizdahr and take control of Meereen, preparing for war with  Yunkai . [5] [6] 
 
 Quotes by Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 We will rue your old man’s honor before this game is done. [5] —Skahaz, to  Barristan Selmy 
 
 Quotes about Skahaz mo Kandaq 
 The Shavepate never made a secret of his disdain for my  lord husband . [2] — Daenerys Targaryen 's thoughts 
 
 The Shavepate would feed  them  to your dragons, it is said. [7] — Galazza Galare , to  Daenerys Targaryen , on Skahaz's intentions towards the Meereenese  child hostages 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 2 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 50 , Daenerys VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 55 , The Queensguard. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 67 , The Kingbreaker. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 70 , The Queen's Hand. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Skahaz_mo_Kandaq&oldid=217203 "  
 Categories :  Nobles Characters from Meereen Courtiers and followers of Daenerys Targaryen Ruling council of Meereen House of Kandaq   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
