
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français 中文 Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Tanda Stokeworth 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Tanda Stokeworth  
 
 Title 
Lady of  Stokeworth Allegiance 
 House Stokeworth Born 
At  Stokeworth [1] Died 
In  300 AC , at  Stokeworth Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appendix) 
 Lady  Tanda Stokeworth  is the head of  House Stokeworth  and is the Lady of  Stokeworth . [2]  She was the aunt of Lord  Gyles Rosby 's second wife and is a third cousin herself to Lord Gyles. [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Characteristics 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   References 
 
 
 Characteristics 
 Tanda is not considered a particularly clever [4]  or attractive woman. [5] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 In a meeting with  Eddard Stark , Lord  Petyr Baelish  claims that he is on his way to dine with Lady Tanda and discuss a possible match with her daughter  Lollys . According to Littlefinger, Lady Tanda's meals are always very rich as inducement and he is looking forward to lamprey pie and roast sucking pig. However, he admits that he'd rather marry the pig than Lollys but asks Eddard not to share this with Lady Tanda. [6]  In a later meeting between the two, Lord Baelish again mentions being on his way to dine with Lady Tanda. This time he expects to be served fatted calf and he mocks that, if the calf is half as fatted as Lollys, he will likely rupture and die. [7] 
 In another meeting with Eddard after  King Robert's  death, Lord Baelish says that there is small love lost between  Renly Baratheon  and the  Lannisters , naming Lady Tanda in this context as a possible supporter for a coup. [8] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Lady Tanda is one of the remaining courtiers after the beginning of hostilities with the North. She attends the  Tourney for King Joffrey's 13th Name Day  with her two daughters,  Falyse  and  Lollys . She cheers  Prince Tommen  on as he rides against a child-sized leather warrior stuffed with straw. [9] 
 She starts hounding  Tyrion Lannister  the minute he arrives at the  Red Keep , trying to coax him during lavish meals to marry Lollys. Tyrion repeatedly tries to dodge her invitations. [10] [11] 
 Varys  informs Tyrion Lannister about a small supper held by her the night before and hands him the guest list for inspection, also mentioning that, when Lord  Gyles Rosby  raised to lift the cup to the King, Ser  Balon Swann  remarked mockingly that they'll need three cups for that, making many guests laugh. Tyrion dismisses this incidence as insignificant. [12] 
 As supplies are getting short in  King's Landing  during the  War of the Five Kings , Lady Tanda's and Lord Gyles' lands provide half of the food still arriving as they lie close to the city to the north and are still untouched by war. [11] 
 She and Lollys are part of the procession to see Princess  Myrcella  off to  Dorne . When the mob goes mad in the streets of King's Landing, she is saved by Ser  Horas Redwyne , but her daughter is not as lucky and left behind. Lady Tanda is half crazed about her fate when those who escaped reach the Red Keep and she begs the King's men to locate her daughter. It turns out that Lollys has survived, but became victim of a gang rape behind a tanner's shop in which 50 men participated. [13] 
 Tyrion and Varys discuss options for bringing  Shae  to the Red Keep without  Queen Cersei  becoming aware of it, with Tyrion suggesting that Shae could work in the kitchen. Varys raises a couple of objections and then mentions that he knows that the maidservant attending Lollys has been filching jewels from her, pointing out that Lady Tanda would be forced to dismiss the girl if he informs her about this, opening a position for Shae. Tyrion likes the idea of Shae working for Lollys, in particular as Cersei considers Lady Tanda tedious and hysterical and her daughter dim-witted and thus isn't likely to pay them any friendly calls where she could meet Shae. [14] 
 She attends the installation of Ser  Balon Swann  and Ser  Osmund Kettleblack  as new members of the  Kingsguard  in the castle sept. Tyrion is disappointed that Lollys is not accompanying her mother, as he had hoped that would give him a glimpse of Shae. He remembers that Shae had asked whether she can bring along a few of her pieces of garment embroidered with jewelry to her new position and he had objected to the suggestion, thinking that, though Landy Tanda was not a clever woman at all, even she would wonder why her daughter's bedmaid has more jewelry than Lollys. [4] 
 After Tyrion has Lord Gyles intercepted when he, on Queen Cersei's order, tries to smuggle Prince Tommen out of King's Landing, Lady Tanda is apparently worried that her own request for leave to return to her castle would be rejected. She makes Cersei the gift of a pig, a rare sight in the starving city, and Cersei thinks it's meant as a bribe. As they dine on the pig, Tyrion and Cersei discuss the idea and Tyrion says he'd rather have Lady Tanda stay at the Red Keep and suggests that, if she wants to feel save, she should bring her own garrison to King's Landing. [15]  Falyse brings a small number of soldiers from  Stokeworth  to King's Landing the day before the battle. [16] 
 During the  Battle of the Blackwater , Lady Tanda stays in the Red Keep with her two daughters and they are invited by Queen Cersei to seek refuge with her in the Queen's Ballroom at  Maegor's Holdfast .  Sansa Stark  runs into them on her way there and realizes that she can't avoid them, observing how Falyse tries to coax a resistent Lollys onto the drawbridge leading to Maegor's Holdfast. Lady Tanda announces with a brittle voice that the battle has begun. When Sansa offers her assistance with Lollys, Lady Tanda flushes with shame and rejects the offer kindly, excusing Lollys' behavior by pointing out that she has not been feeling well, while Sansa knows of the rumors that Lollys is pregnant. [16]  After a meal at the ballroom, she and her daughters, with others, ask for leave to go to the sept, which is granted by Cersei. [17] 
 Together with her daughters, she attends the presentation of heroes and captives in the throne room after Joffrey's forces have won the battle, and Sansa Stark notices that in their matching gowns of turquoise silk and vair even Lady Tanda and her daughters look pretty. [18] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Upon  Shae 's advice, she hires  Symon Silver Tongue  to sing to  Lollys  to calm her when the baby starts kicking. When Shae asks  Tyrion  whether she could dress in her fine gowns and attend the wedding of  King Joffrey  and  Margaery Tyrell , Tyrion objects and says that Lady Tanda might wonder where her daughter's bedmaid found so many jewels. Shae argues she'd find a covered spot and Lady Tanda wouldn't even see her among the thousand guests. [19] 
 Lady Tanda offers Lollys as wife for Tyrion to Lord  Tywin Lannister . However, Lord Tywin wants Tyrion to marry  Sansa Stark  to assure Lannister influence in the north. When Tyrion objects, Lord Tywin says he will have to find him another wife then, raising Lady Tanda's offer in this context. Tyrion replies that he'd rather cut his penis off than marry Lollys. [20] 
 Shae mentions to Tyrion that Landy Tanda slips Lollys dreamwine. Shae again raises the idea of attending the royal wedding and Tyrion, increasingly worried about her safety, remembers that  Varys  told him that he gave Shae a false history when she was hired as maid for Lollys, but that it was only good enough to serve Lady Tanda and her daughter, suggesting that it would not hold up if  Queen Cersei  would start asking questions about it, as she is of a more suspicious mind. [21] 
 A guest at the wedding of Joffrey and Margaery, she gives the king a pair of supple riding boots. [22]  She leaves the throne room while Joffrey is drawing his last breaths, meeting  Sansa Stark  as she flees. On noticing that Sansa is sobbing, she tells her: "You have a good heart, my lady. Not every maid would weep so for a man who set her aside and wed her to a dwarf. [...] The gods are cruel to take him so young and handsome, at his own wedding feast." [23] 
 Ser  Bronn  tells Tyrion that he's expected at  Castle Stokeworth  for dinner, revealing that he has been offered to marry Lollys. Tyrion, suspecting a plot by Cersei to get Bronn out of the way, points out that Lollys is pregnant from another man and that she won't even inherit Stokeworth when Lady Tanda dies; rather her elder sister  Falyse  would. However, Bronn isn't bothered by the baby and makes the ominous suggestion that Falyse might die before her mother. This makes Tyrion wonder whether Cersei has any notion of the kind of serpent she had given Lady Tanda to suckle, and if she even would care if she knew. [24] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Lady Tanda remains at  Stokeworth  with her daughter, once  Lollys  becomes too pregnant to travel, transmitting her excuses to  Cersei Lannister  that she cannot attend Lord  Tywin's  wake via her daughter  Falyse . She asks for permission to name Lollys' child after Lord Tywin, as she had been admiring him above all other men. Cersei strongly objects to the idea, telling Falyse that she does not want a bastard resulting from a gang rape to bear her father's name. Falyse is shocked about the fierceness of the rejection but her husband, Ser  Balman Byrch , assures Cersei that he already told Lady Tanda as much and that they'll find a more suitable name for the child. [25]  She and her daughters do not attend the marriage of  King Tommen  and  Margaery Tyrell , for which Cersei is grateful, as it spares her Lady Tanda's tearful embraces. [26] 
 Grand Maester  Pycelle  informs Cersei that Lady Tanda has sent news that Lollys has been delivered of a strong, healthy son and that the child's name is Tyrion. Lady Tanda insists that the choice was not hers but rather Ser  Bronn 's, Lollys' husband. [26] 
 While still at Stokeworth, Lady Tanda falls from her horse when her saddle girth bursts. She shatters her hip in the accident. A stable boy is chastised for this, as he should have seen that the strap was worn. Lady Tanda is attended by Maester  Frenken , who is assuring her daughter Falyse that he does everything he can. However, when Queen Cersei inquires about the condition of Falyse's "dear, dear mother", Falyse suggests that there is little hope and that they have started praying for her. Thinking by herself, Cersei expects that Lady Tanda will be dead before the moon turns as women as old as she is do not survive a broken hip. However, she assures Falyse that she would pray for Lady Tanda, too, also telling her that Lady Tanda is the sister she never had. [3] 
 Lady Tanda's condition at the time Falyse informs Cersei that her plot to kill Bronn has failed is not known. As Bronn has thrown Falyse out of  Stokeworth  after killing her husband and has styled himself "Lord Stokeworth", Falyse wonders what will become of her poor mother now. However, Cersei thinks that Lady Tanda might very well be dead already, as Bronn doesn't seem the man who would put much effort in nursing an old woman with a broken hip. [27] 
 Lady Tanda eventually dies from a chill brought on by her injury. When Cersei receives the news at a time when Lord  Gyles Rosby  lies dying as well, she thinks that it's good to still have  Moon Boy  around, as the court would otherwise be completely bereft of fools. [28] 
 
 Family 
 
           Tanda   Unknown                     Manly     
                                                                                       
   Falyse   Balman Byrch   Unknown   Lollys   Bronn of the Blackwater           
                                     
                       Tyrion Tanner           
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Tanda Stokeworth. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 24 , Cersei V. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 61 , Tyrion XIV. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 45 , Eddard XII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 15 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 8 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 41 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 54 , Tyrion XII. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 60 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 65 , Sansa VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 12 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 58 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 59 , Sansa IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 61 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 7 , Cersei II. 
 
 ↑  26.0   26.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 12 , Cersei III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 36 , Cersei VIII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Tanda_Stokeworth&oldid=220031 "  
 Categories :  House Stokeworth Noblewomen Ruling ladies Characters from the Crownlands Members of Robert Baratheon's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
