
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Timett 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Timett, son of Timett 
 by Amok© 
 Alias 
Timett One-Eye Title 
 red hand Allegiance 
 Burned Men Culture 
 Vale mountain clans Born 
In or between  278 AC  and  282 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Tobias Winter TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Timett  is a  red hand , a type of war chief, of the  Burned Men , one of the most-feared  Vale clans  of the  Mountains of the Moon . He is commonly known as  Timett son of Timett , after  his father , [2]  and is also called  Timett One-Eye . [3] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Throne s 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 
 
 4   Quotes 
 5   References and Notes 
 6   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Timett 
 Timett is a tall, fierce young man with a burned left eye. He is not yet twenty years of age. [2] 
 
 History 
 During the rite of manhood for his clan, Timett burned one of his eyes out of its socket with a hot knife. Because the typical sacrifice for the rite is a nipple or finger, the impressed clan elders immediately named him a red hand of the tribe. Timett was very young for this position, but he inspired fear even among his fellow clansmen. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Throne s 
 Timett joins the group of clansmen who choose to follow  Tyrion Lannister  and join the army of Lord  Tywin Lannister . He serves as the leader of the  Burned Men  in the group. [2]  He fights in the  battle on the Green Fork , vaulting from his horse when it dies during the charge. After the battle, he loots the bodies of the slain with his Burned Men. [4] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Timett follows Tyrion to  King's Landing . He becomes one of Tyrion's chief enforcers, along with  Bronn  and  Shagga , during Tyrion's tenure as  Hand of the King . [5]  Before the  Battle of the Blackwater , Tyrion sends Timett with the rest of the remaining clansmen to the  kingswood , where he raids enemy forces. [6] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Timett attempts to return to King's Landing to serve Tyrion, but is driven off because of Tyrion's injury. He and his men instead return to the  Mountains of the Moon  with their plunder from  Stannis Baratheon 's camp at the Blackwater. [7] 
 When  Sandor Clegane  attempts to enter the mountains to travel to the  Eyrie , he is warned off by locals, one of whom states how ferocious the mountain clans have become after Timett One-Eye's return. [3] 
 During the trial of Tyrion for  the death  of King  Joffrey I Baratheon , Tyrion's lover  Shae  is the last witness for the Crown. She claims that Tyrion had ordered Timett and  Shagga  to forcefully bring her to Tyrion after the  battle on the Green Fork . [8]  In actuality, she was a willing camp follower found by Bronn. [4] 
 
 Quotes 
 The Burned Men fear nothing. Timett son of Timett will ride with the  lions . [2] 
  - Timett to  Tywin Lannister 
 References and Notes 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Timett  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 56 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 65 , Arya XII. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 62 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 25 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 49 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Timett  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Timett&oldid=177065 "  
 Categories :  Characters from the Vale Tyrion Lannister's household Members of the mountain clans of the Vale   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
