
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Tristifer Botley 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Tristifer Botley  
 Tristifer Botley by Tiziano Baracci - FFG © 
 Alias 
Tris Title 
Lord of  Lordsport  (disputed by  Germund Botley ) Allegiance 
 House Botley Culture 
 ironborn Born 
At  Lordsport [1] Book(s) 
 A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Tristifer Botley , known as  Tris , is the second son of Lord  Sawane Botley . [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Feast for Crows 
 3.2   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Tristifer 
 5   Quotes about Tristifer 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Tristifer Botley 
 Tris has messy brown hair and large eyes. He was pimpled as a boy. Although now handsome, Tris has an unrequited love for  Asha Greyjoy . [2] 
 
 History 
 Tristifer was among the five boys brought to  Pyke  to become the foster sons of Lady  Alannys Harlaw  after  Greyjoy's Rebellion .  Theon Greyjoy  knew him since they were boys. [3]  Tris became friends with  Asha Greyjoy  but was sent away to  Blacktyde  after he and Asha were found touching each other by Maester  Qalen . Tris wrote letters to Asha from Blacktyde, but Maester  Joseran  refused to send them. [2] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Feast for Crows 
 Tristifer is the titular Lord of  Lordsport  after his father,  Sawane , is killed by  Euron Greyjoy  and his elder brother,  Harren , dies at  Moat Cailin . Euron gives half of the Botley lands to  House Wynch  of  Iron Holt , however, and Tris's uncle  Germund  claims to be lord. [2] 
 Tris meets with Lord  Rodrik Harlaw  at the  Ten Towers . He declares his love for  Asha Greyjoy  at that castle, but Asha spurns him. [2] 
 Tris is one of the champions for Asha at the  kingsmoot . [4] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 After Euron is proclaimed  King of the Isles and the North  at the kingsmoot, Tristifer sails on his longship to  Deepwood Motte  with three others of Asha's as she contemplates her next move. He grows a thick brown beard, wears furs, and rides a tall roan stallion. [5]  Asha kisses Tris after he tells her of  Torgon the Latecomer . [5] 
 Tris proposes that the  ironborn  under Asha abandon  Westeros  and try to make their fortune as traders. When  northern mountain clansmen  approach Deepwood, Asha abandons the castle and leads her ironborn toward the  Bay of Ice . Traveling in the  wolfswood , Tris refuses to sleep with  Hagen's daughter . They are defeated in the  fight by Deepwood Motte  by  Stannis Baratheon 's men, however. Despite not being a warrior Tristifer fights bravely in the battle. [5]  While Asha is taken by Stannis for his  march on Winterfell , Tris and the other ironborn survivors are imprisoned at Deepwood. [6] 
 The ironborn at Deepwood are eventually ransomed from Lady  Sybelle Glover  by  Tycho Nestoris . They escort this envoy of the  Iron Bank of Braavos  to Stannis, whose army is encamped at a  crofters' village . [7] 
 
 Quotes by Tristifer 
 Asha : You are the rightful Lord  Botley . Once I hold the  Seastone Chair ,  your father's  lands shall be restored. 
 Tristifer : If you like. It's nought to me. [2] 
  -  Asha Greyjoy  and Tristifer
 
 
 Tristifer : You and I were meant to be, Asha. I have always known you would be my wife, and the mother of my sons. 
 Asha : Take your hand away or you won't live long enough to breed a son. Now. You want a woman, well and good. I'll put one in your bed tonight. Pretend she's me, if that will give you pleasure, but do not presume to grab at me again. I am your queen, not your wife. Remember that. [2] 
  - Tristifer and  Asha Greyjoy 
 Quotes about Tristifer 
 Sweet eyes, truly. That was the trouble with poor Tristifer; he was too sweet for the  Iron Islands . [2] 
  - thoughts of  Asha Greyjoy 
 
 
 I don't want to have a dozen sons. I want to have adventures. [2] 
  -  Asha Greyjoy  to Tristifer
 Family 
 
           Unknown       Lord Botley       Other women                 
                                                                           
           Sawane   Germund   Lucimore   Sargon     
                                                               
                 Balon   Quellon       Wex Pyke   
                                                                                                               
   Harren   Tristifer   Symond   Harlon   Vickon   Bennarion 
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Tristifer Botley. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 11 , The Kraken's Daughter. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Theon I 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 19 , The Drowned Man. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 26 , The Wayward Bride. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 42 , The King's Prize. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 62 , The Sacrifice. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Tristifer_Botley&oldid=212720 "  
 Categories :  House Botley Characters from the Iron Islands Followers of Asha Greyjoy Nobles Sailors Supporters of Balon Greyjoy in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
