
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Tytos Blackwood 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Tytos Blackwood    
 
 Title 
Lord of  Raventree Hall Allegiance 
 House Blackwood Born 
At  Raventree Hall [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Tytos Blackwood  is Lord of  Raventree Hall  and head of  House Blackwood , a noble house of the  riverlands .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Game of Thrones 
 2.2   A Clash of Kings 
 2.3   A Storm of Swords 
 2.4   A Feast for Crows 
 2.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Family 
 4   Quotes by Tytos 
 5   Quotes about Tytos 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance 
 Tytos has a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard, a hook nose, [2]  and long hair. [3]  He is tall and thin [3]  and often wears a magnificent raven-feather cloak. At the start of the  War of the Five Kings  his armor is bright yellow and inlaid with jet in elaborate vine-and-leaf patterns. [2]  Later in the war he wears burnished scarlet armor which features in silver inlay the dead  weirwood  tree of  Raventree Hall  surrounded by onyx ravens taking flight. [3]  He is noted to be a skilled warrior and friend of the  Starks  of  Winterfell . [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Tytos Blackwood by Wibben. © Fantasy Flight Games. 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Lord Tytos fights at the  Battle of Riverrun , leading the remnants of the riverlands force back within the walls of  Riverrun . [5]  During the  Battle of the Camps , he leads a sortie from the castle that takes the middle  Lannister  camp in the rear and rescues Ser  Edmure Tully . [6]  After the victory, he, being a follower of the  old gods , joins  Robb Stark  in praying in the  godswood  of Riverrun. During the war council afterward, Lord Tytos is seated as far as possible from his rival, Lord  Jonos Bracken . Tytos suggests pressing against the Lannisters by joining with Lord  Roose Bolton 's host and marching against  Harrenhal . He joins the other river lords in declaring Robb to be  King in the North . [2] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 While Lord Tytos has been with the  Tully  army, his lands have been overrun by  westermen . Given leave by King Robb to do so, Tytos  sweeps  the Lannisters off his lands, but is left with nothing but a desert and his keep,  Raventree Hall . [7] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lord Tytos is among the seven nobles who launch the funeral boat of Lord  Hoster Tully . [8] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the  Red Wedding , the old enemies of the Blackwoods,  House Bracken , re-swear fealty to the  Iron Throne  and attack Blackwood lands. After the  fall of Riverrun , Raventree Hall becomes the last Stark loyalist stronghold in the south. There, Lord Tytos and his men hold out against Lord  Jonos Bracken . Lord  Karyl Vance  implores Ser  Jaime Lannister  to go to Raventree to end the siege. [9] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Jaime Lannister arrives at  Blackwood Vale  to resolve the  Siege of Raventree . Despite running low on supplies, Tytos refuses to surrender to his rival,  Jonos Bracken , saying he will yield only to the king. Meeting with Jaime in his solar at Raventree, Tytos surrenders to the  Iron Throne . He agrees to give up some land to House Bracken, although less than Jonos desired, and to send some gold and silver to the Iron Throne. Tytos convinces Jaime to take one of his sons,  Hoster , as a hostage, rather than his only daughter,  Bethany . During the parley with Jaime, Tytos states that Lord  Walder Frey 's fourth wife  Alyssa  was a Blackwood, but kinship and  guest right  count for little at  the Twins . His second son,  Lucas , was slain as a guest at the  Red Wedding , and Tytos requests to Jaime that Lucas's bones be returned so he can see him decently buried beneath Raventree's weirwood, which Jaime agrees to. [3] 
 
 Family 
 
                       Lord Blackwood   Unknown wife       
                                                                                                         
                       Tytos   Unknown wife   Son   Son   Daughter       
                                                                                                                                 
       Brynden   Lucas   Hoster   Edmund   Alyn   Bethany   Robert 
                                                   
 
 
 
 Quotes by Tytos 
 My hall might lack for food, but never for courtesy. [3] 
  - Tytos to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Quotes about Tytos 
 When did Blackwood and  Bracken  agree about  anything  that was not certain, I ask you? [10] 
  -  Edmure Tully  to  Catelyn Tully 
 
 
 Every Blackwood is a turncloak. [3] 
  -  Jonos Bracken  to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Some might say that Lord Blackwood has been more honorable. [3] 
  -  Jaime Lannister  comparing Tytos to  Jonos Bracken 
 References 
 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Tytos Blackwood. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 71 , Catelyn XI. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 48 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑   A Song of Ice and Fire Campaign Guide 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 56 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 7 , Catelyn I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 35 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 39 , Catelyn V. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Tytos_Blackwood&oldid=213013 "  
 Categories :  House Blackwood Characters from the Riverlands Nobles Supporters of Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
