
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Português Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Tywin Lannister 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Tywin Lannister  
 Tywin Lannister - by BrittMartin 
 Alias 
The Lion of Lannister The Old Lion The Great Lion of the Rock Title 
Lord of  Casterly Rock Shield of Lannisport Warden of the West Hand of the King Savior of the City   (of King's Landing) Ser Allegiance 
 House Lannister Culture 
 westermen Born 
In  242 AC [1] , at  Casterly Rock [2] Died 
In  300 AC , at  King's Landing Spouse 
Lady  Joanna Lannister Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appears) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Charles Dance TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2  |  Season 3  |  Season 4 
 Tywin Lannister  is Lord of  Casterly Rock , Shield of  Lannisport , and  Warden of the West . The head of  House Lannister , Tywin is one of the most powerful lords in  Westeros , and is the father of  Cersei ,  Jaime , and  Tyrion . He loves his children Jaime and Cersei, but despises Tyrion. This is partly because Tyrion is deformed, but also Tywin blames his son for causing his beloved wife  Joanna 's death during his birth, as well as for shaming the family name with his frequent whoring. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , Tywin is portrayed by  Charles Dance .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   As Hand of the King 
 2.3   Robert's Rebellion and aftermath 
 2.4   Children 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Tywin 
 5   Quotes about Tywin 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 8   External links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Tywin Lannister 
 Tywin is a tall, slender, broad-shouldered man in his fifties. He has kept his head shaved ever since he started going bald, but grows out bushy golden side-whiskers, and has green eyes flecked with gold. In battle, he wears deep crimson armor highlighted with gold, with a cloth-of-gold cape. [3] 
 Tywin is a calculating, intelligent, politically astute, ruthless, and controlling man. He dedicates his life and efforts towards maintaining the Lannisters' prestige, and ensuring House Lannister is respected, or at least feared. He is a proven battle commander and politician, and has a very powerful presence combined with an intimidating gaze.
 
 History 
 Early life 
   Tywin as a boy with his father Tytos as depicted by Magali Villeneuve in  The World of Ice & Fire 
 Tywin was the first born of  Tytos Lannister  and his wife  Jeyne Marbrand . His early years were formative ones, shaping his mind and resolve for the life that lay ahead of him. Tywin was forced to watch his mighty house nearly brought to ruin through his father's actions. His father while a gentle and amiable man was also weak willed and eager to please, loans went unpaid and his bannermen did what they pleased mocking him in their cups or openly defying him.
 According to  Genna Lannister , when Tytos agreed to marry her to  Emmon Frey , the second son of Lord  Walder Frey , just to please Lord Walder. The betrothal was announced at a feast in  252 AC , with most of the Lords of the West in attendance. Upon the announcement, Lord  Roger Reyne  left the hall in anger and  Ellyn Reyne  laughed aloud. The rest of Lord Tytos's vassals sat on their tongues, only the ten-year-old Tywin spoke out against the wedding because he thought it an uneven match. [4]  Tytos later sent Tywin to  King's Landing  to serve as a royal cupbearer at King  Aegon V Targaryen 's court. At the royal court Tywin befriended the young Prince  Aerys  and the heir to  Storm's End ,  Steffon Baratheon . His cousin,  Joanna Lannister , also served at the royal court as a companion and lady-in-waiting to Princess  Rhaella Targaryen . [5] [6] 
 During the  War of the Ninepenny Kings , eleven thousand westermen under the leadership Tywin's uncle, Ser  Jason Lannister  (who would later perish in the war) were sent to fight beside the forces of the  Iron Throne  in the  Stepstones . Tywin who was already a knight by then joined the Lannister force as did his brothers  Kevan  and  Tygett  as squires.
The young Prince Aerys Targaryen served as a squire during the war and when he won his knighthood, Tywin was granted the honor of knighting his friend. [6] 
 House Lannister's reputation was low because of Tywin's weak father, Tytos. [7]  Tywin decided to take ruthless steps to rectify the situation and restore the family honor and fortune from its near ruin.
Upon the return of Ser Tywin Lannister from the  Stepstones  with his brothers, Ser  Kevan  (newly knighted) and  Tygett Lannister  who while still a squire had distinguished himself well in the fighting. The three were now battle hardened from the war, they knew how their House was regarded by others under the misrule of their sire and were determined to change that. Tywin Lannister took upon himself the task of restoring his house's dominance. The young Tywin, declared to his father he was restoring  House Lannister  to its proper place, Lord Tytos protested feebly before returning to the comfort and embrace of his current mistress, who was a wet nurse. [5] 
 Tywin began by demanding the repayment of the gold his father lent out, those who could not repay immediately had to send a hostage to  Casterly Rock  until their debt was settled. He charged his brother Kevan with command of five hundred knights, who were all blooded and seasoned veterans from the  War of the Ninepenny Kings  and had them rid the westerlands of robber knights and bandit outlaws. Some hastened to obey, and Ser  Harys Swyft  stated, "The Lion has awoken." [5] 
 Unable to pay the loan at the time, Ser Harys agreed to surrender his daughter  Dorna  into Ser Kevan's custody, elsewhere the collectors were met with sullen resistance and open defiance.  Roger Reyne  reportedly laughed when he read Tywin's edicts and counseled his friends and vassals to do nothing.
 Lord  Walderran Tarbeck  unwisely choose a different course. He rode to Casterly Rock to confront Lord Tytos, confident he could easily cow Tytos to rescind his son's edicts. Lord Tytos was not present when Lord Tarbeck arrived at court, but the young Tywin was and ordered Lord Walderran imprisoned for disloyalty.
 In return, Lady  Ellyn Tarbeck  seized three Lannisters - two  Lannisters  of  Lannisport , as well as  Stafford Lannister , whose  sister  was betrothed to Tywin and threatened them harm unless her Lord and husband was returned. This awoke Lord Tytos who was determined to get his  late brother's  son, Stafford, back alive and ignored Tywin's suggestion that Lord Walderran should be sent back to his wife in three pieces, one for every Lannister taken. Tytos returned Walderran unharmed and even forgave the Tarbeck debt to  House Lannister , further weakening the position of the House. [8] [5] 
 Tywin was determined to bring the overmighty and belligerent vassals to heel. Late in the year of  261 AC  Tywin (who did not seek his lord father's leave, nor even informed him of his intent) sent a raven message to both  Tarbeck Hall  and  Castamere  demanding that they present themselves at  Casterly Rock  to answer for their crimes. Both refused (as Tywin knew they would) and choose defiance, rising in revolt and renouncing their fealty to  House Lannister . Tywin rode forth himself taking command of the Lannister forces and immediately marched against the upstart vassals taking the army he had already gathered prior to sending the raven messages.
 Thus, Tywin took upon himself the task of putting down  House Tarbeck  and  House Reyne , for their  defiance  and showing the world that the Lion of Lannister was a beast to fear. Tywin crushed both vassal houses with ruthless efficiency, destroying both houses entirely so that their lines were ended, leaving their ruined and shattered castles as a mute testimony to the fate that awaits those who scorn the power of  Casterly Rock . [9]  Such was the brutality of Tywin's destruction of House Reyne that a song called " The Rains of Castamere " was written as a tribute to the event. Indeed when Lord  Farman  of  Faircastle  later grew truculent Tywin sent a messenger with a lute instead of a letter and once "The Rains of Castamere" was played Lord Farman caused no further trouble.
 Upon the death of King  Jaehaerys II Targaryen , the newly-crowned King  Aerys II Targaryen  choose his friend Ser Tywin as  Hand of the King , impressed by the ruthlessness demonstrated against the rebellious Reynes and Tarbecks. Tywin spent much of his time at the court of  King's Landing , his father continued to rule the westerlands for the next few years, though still a weak Lord none of his other vassals dared cause trouble after seeing what his heir Tywin did to Reynes and Tarbecks.
 When Tywin's father Tytos finally keeled over of a burst heart in  267 AC  while climbing a flight of steps to visit his new mistress, [10]  Ser Tywin became the Lord of Casterly Rock and  Warden of the West . Upon his return to  Casterly Rock  after hearing of his father's death, Tywin found his father's new mistress trying on one of his late mother's gowns. Tywin learned that while he was away serving as at  King's Landing , his father's mistress, the daughter of a chandler, dominated Tytos utterly, ordering about the household knights and dismissing servants and helping herself to his late wife's jewelery. [7]  Tywin had her stripped naked and forced the sobbing woman to  walk the streets  of  Lannisport  to confess to every man she met that she was a thief and a harlot before banishing her from the westerlands. [10] 
 As a result of his father's follies Tywin Lannister never laughed as he mistrusted laughter, hearing too much of it directed at his father and House Lannister in his youth. Tywin also seldom smiled when he was young and never smiled again after his wife's death. [11] 
 
 As Hand of the King 
 Tywin married his cousin  Joanna Lannister  and from all reports the marriage was a happy one.  Genna Lannister  said that Tywin smiled on the day he wed Joanna. [11]  It was said that though Tywin ruled the Seven Kingdoms ( as Hand ) he was ruled at home by his lady wife. Joanna gave him twins,  Cersei  and  Jaime  that he hoped would one day be Queen of Westeros and Lord of Casterly Rock, but then disaster struck when his beloved wife died giving birth to  Tyrion , considered a hideous monster. Tywin was devastated by Joanna's untimely death and took no further wife.  Gerion Lannister  once told his nephew Tyrion that the best part of Tywin died when Joanna did. [12] 
 
   Tywin appointed as  Aerys II   King's Hand 
 Tywin proved himself a brilliant administrator in the position of  Hand of the King  and held the post for twenty years of peace and plenty. Some people joked it was he and not the king who really ruled the land. It ended when Aerys' increasing paranoia and jealousy drove the two into several bitter disagreements. According to Ser  Barristan Selmy , Aerys lusted after Tywin's wife when she was alive [13]  which caused further friction between the two. Tension increased at the  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  in  Lannisport  in  276 AC  when Aerys refused Tywin's offer to betroth  Cersei  to his heir, Prince  Rhaegar . In  281 AC  Aerys raised  Jaime , Tywin's fifteen-year old son, to the  Kingsguard , robbing Tywin of his prized heir; Tywin understood that the king’s motivations were to make Jaime a hostage to use against his father. Upset at Aerys's treatment of Jaime at the  tourney of Harrenhal , Tywin resigned his position on some thin pretext and returned to  Casterly Rock .
 
 Robert's Rebellion and aftermath 
 When  Robert's Rebellion  began, Lord Tywin sat at Casterly Rock and waited, ignoring King Aerys's orders to arm, taking no side until after  Robert Baratheon 's decisive victory at the  Battle of the Trident . After the battle, Tywin mustered his forces and rode for the capital of  King's Landing . After Aerys was convinced by Grand Maester  Pycelle  that Tywin had come to aid him, he ordered the gates of the city opened for Tywin. The westermen proceeded to  sack the city . Aerys was killed by Jaime before Tywin's forces arrived at the Red Keep, but  Gregor Clegane  and  Amory Lorch , knights sworn to Tywin and under Tywin's orders, slew Rhaegar's wife  Elia of Dorne  and her two young children,  Rhaenys  and  Aegon . Tywin wrapped the bodies in crimson Lannister cloaks to better conceal the blood and presented them to Robert Baratheon as a token of fealty. When asked by his son Tyrion years later why Tywin did not let Robert bloody his own hands, Tywin's replied:
 
 We had come late to Robert's cause. It was necessary to demonstrate our loyalty. When I laid those bodies before the throne, no man could doubt that we had forsaken House Targaryen forever. And Robert's relief was palpable. As stupid as he was, even he knew that Rhaegar's children had to die if his throne was ever to be secure. Yet he saw himself as a hero, and heroes do not kill children. [14] 
 
 While earning House Lannister the hatred of both  House Martell  of  Dorne  and the population of  King's Landing , this act also secured the marriage of the new king, Robert I Baratheon, to Tywin's daughter  Cersei , whose proposed betrothal to Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen  had been rejected by Aerys much to Tywin's bitter disappointment. Cersei's marriage to the new, young, and popular king did much to make up for Tywin's earlier disappointment.
 
   Tywin Lannister - by Nacho Molina © 
 After the rebellion, Tywin returned to  Casterly Rock , where he continued to serve as Lord and Warden of the West. In  289 AC  Lord  Balon Greyjoy  began  Greyjoy's Rebellion  against King Robert by burning the Lannister fleet anchored at Lannisport. After the defeat of the Greyjoys, Tywin rebuilt his fleet [15]  and hosted another  tourney at Lannisport . Due to King Robert's financial mismanagement of the realm, as well as his own new connection to the throne by marriage, Lord Tywin frequently lent money to the crown, placing the court in King's Landing in debt of over three million  gold dragons  to House Lannister.
 Though ruthless, Tywin Lannister is an able and shrewd ruler who brought great prosperity during his tenures as the King's Hand. He is especially talented at the raising of funds, leading to a persistent jest that he must "shit gold." [16]  The common folk of Lannisport cheered twice as loud for Tywin at the  tourney for King Aerys II  as they did for their actual king. Even so, Tywin is more respected than loved in the  westerlands  and he became despised in  King's Landing  after his house treacherously sacked the city.
 
 Children 
 When Tywin discovered his son  Tyrion  wed a common girl,  Tysha , which in Tywin's eyes would make the house a laughingstock again, Tywin taught him a sharp lesson. He commanded Tyrion's brother  Jaime  to name her a prostitute and made Tyrion watch as Tywin gave Tysha over to his garrison of guards, having each man pay the girl a silver coin after raping her. He forced Tyrion to do the same but pay the girl a gold coin. [17]  He earned the enmity of his son forever for that act, but Tywin did not care, for it was on his other children that he placed all his hopes.
 Tywin later refused to allow Tyrion to travel and see the world as Tywin's brothers had in their youth, fearing he would bring further shame on House Lannister and as a "gift" for Tyrion's sixteenth  name day  he put his son in charge of cleaning all the drains of  Casterly Rock . [18] 
 When Tyrion became 16-years-old, the official age of adulthood, he believed he would be free to do as he wished. Tywin disillusioned him, replying:
 
 No man is free. Only children and fools think elsewise. [18] 
 
 Though Tywin's children also greatly respect him, none of them have been able to conform to the paths he had laid out for them, which causes many difficulties. [8] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Tywin Lannister preparing for war - by Magali Villeneuve © 
 Believed to be responsible for hiring  an assassin  to murder  Bran Stark  while he lay in a coma, Tywin's son  Tyrion  is arrested at the  inn at the crossroads  by  Catelyn Stark , the wife of  Eddard Stark , current  Hand of the King . She takes him to her sister  Lysa , at the  Eyrie , for trial. Though Tywin does not care about Tyrion's welfare, he sees the arrest and kidnapping as a direct slight on House Lannister's honor which he will not tolerate. In response Tywin sends Ser  Gregor Clegane  and the  Mountain's men , disguised as brigands, to sack and pillage various villages and hamlets across the  riverlands , Catelyn's homeland. [19]  These raids mark one of the seminal points in what is to become the  War of the Five Kings .
 Tywin's aim is to draw Eddard out of King's Landing, capture him, and exchange him for the freedom of his son. [20]  Eddard, however, is injured in a skirmish on the streets of King's Landing with Tywin's son  Jaime , who is unaware of Tywin's plans, and Eddard sends Lord  Beric Dondarrion  after Gregor in his stead. When Beric's forces reach the  Mummer's Ford , soldiers of Tywin's and Gregor's  attack from all sides , routing Beric's host. [21] 
 
   Tywin and  Jaime  ride to war - by Thomas Denmark © 
 As the war gains momentum, Tywin's forces take the majority of the riverlands and lay siege to  Riverrun  before meeting their first real opposition in the  battle on the Green Fork . Just prior to the battle, Tyrion, having won his freedom from the  Vale of Arryn  via  trial by combat  and earned the loyalty of many of the  Vale mountain clans  along the way, meets with his father. Tywin sends Tyrion and his clansmen into the battle on the left flank, believing the undisciplined men likely to rout, but giving the northern commander, which Tywin believed to be the young and inexperienced  Robb Stark , a chance to over-commit and be annihilated. [22]  The clansmen do not rout, however, and the northern commander is not Robb but instead the more cautious and experienced Lord  Roose Bolton . The battle is a Lannister victory, but it buys enough time for a separate northern force under Robb Stark's command to cross the  Trident  at the  Twins . With the  battle in the Whispering Wood  and the  Battle of the Camps , Robb is able to capture Tywin's other son,  Jaime , and lift the siege of Riverrun. [23] 
 After the death of King  Robert I Baratheon , Tywin is named Hand of the King for his grandson,  Joffrey I Baratheon . [24]  After the battle, he sends Tyrion to King's Landing to serve as Hand in his stead, and to prepare the city's defenses in anticipation of an attack from one or both of Robert's brothers,  Stannis  and  Renly , while Tywin manages the war with the  north  and the riverlands. [23] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 The loss of  Riverrun  means that Tywin is not able to pursue and destroy  Roose Bolton 's forces. Instead he marches south to  Harrenhal  while he ponders his next move. Lannister men in the riverlands are harassed by  Beric Dondarrion 's  outlaw brotherhood , despite Beric having been reported as slain several times. [16] 
 Robb Stark , now the  King in the North , marches from Riverrun and invades the  westerlands , smashing a new Lannister host being raised and trained by  Stafford Lannister  at  Oxcross  and turning his forces loose to scour the westerlands. With  Renly  mysteriously killed and the loyalties of his men disputed, [25] [26]  Tywin leaves Harrenhal and marches his forces west in pursuit of Robb, [27]  gambling that  Stannis  will be occupied with the  siege of Storm's End . [28] [29]  With Tywin gone, however, the  Brave Companions  abandon the Lannister cause and  betray Harrenhal  to Lord Bolton. [30] 
 Robb and Ser  Brynden Tully  plan to lead Tywin's army on a long chase across the westerlands, bleeding his forces and living off of their lands. [31]  However, Ser  Edmure Tully , who has been tasked with holding Riverrun but is unaware of Robb's plan, meets Tywin's army in the field in the  Battle of the Fords . [32]  Tywin's forces are bloodied and thrown back, but the delay allows word to reach Tywin that Stannis has unexpectedly [28]  taken formidable Storm's End and laid claim to much of Renly's army, and that he is marching and sailing on King's Landing with an enormous force. [33] [29] 
 Tywin turns his host southeast on a forced march to the headwaters of the  Blackwater Rush , where he meets Lords  Mathis Rowan  and  Randyll Tarly  of the newly-allied  Reach . They then join with the forces of Lord  Mace Tyrell  at  Tumbler's Falls . [31]  Sailing together on barges down the Blackwater Rush, the Lannisters and Tyrells arrive just in time for the waning moments of the  Battle of the Blackwater , where they are able to break and drive away the majority of Stannis's army, which had been on the cusp of victory, by taking them in the flank. [31]  Tywin commands the host's right flank during the battle. [34]  Tywin is declared Savior of the City by King  Joffrey I Baratheon . Tywin's son Tyrion, who had done much for the city's defenses, is critically wounded in the fighting. [35] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
   Tywin paraded as Savior of the City - by Pojypojy © 
 Tywin's timely arrival at the Battle of the Blackwater allows him to take the majority of the credit for the Lannister victory. Tywin assumes his official position as King Joffrey's Hand, [36]  while giving Tyrion, after his recovery, the position of  Master of Coin , which Tyrion sees as a demotion and an insult. Tywin arranges for Tyrion to be wed to  Sansa Stark [9]  before she can be betrothed to  Willas Tyrell , giving him claim over  Winterfell  and directly denying Tyrion's ambition to inherit  Casterly Rock . [35]  He also makes plans to find a suitor to marry his widowed daughter, Queen  Cersei , though they are never realized. He offers her to Willas Tyrell but  Mace Tyrell , after being hectored by his mother,  Olenna Redwyne , refuses the match. Tywin demands that Tyrion act as if the offer were never made. [37] 
 After learning that Robb Stark has unexpectedly wed  Jeyne Westerling  and that  House Westerling  has gone over to the Starks, Tywin remains in communication, via raven, with Jeyne's mother  Sybell Spicer . He also communicates with  Roose Bolton , who has switched sides to the Lannisters after taking Harrenhal, and Lord  Walder Frey , who sees Robb's marriage to Jeyne as an insult to  House Frey , as it breaks a marriage pact Robb had previously made to wed a Frey girl. The  Red Wedding  is the direct result of their correspondence, which sees Robb Stark betrayed and murdered along with the vast majority of his host, effectively ending the war with House Lannister the victor.
 Tywin Lannister has  Ice , the  Valyrian steel  greatsword of  Eddard Stark , reforged into two longswords as gifts,  one  for Joffrey on his wedding day and  the other  to Jaime. [37]  Not long after, King Joffrey is poisoned and dies at  the feast following his wedding  to  Margaery Tyrell . Tywin's son Tyrion is falsely accused of the crime, and Tywin agrees to be one of Tyrion's three judges, alongside  Oberyn Martell  and  Mace Tyrell , at his trial. When it becomes clear that he is going to be found guilty, Tyrion demands trial by combat, and Oberyn surprisingly volunteers to champion him. Cersei, being Tyrion's accuser, selects Ser Gregor Clegane to represent the crown. Gregor, despite being poisoned by Oberyn during the trial, wins the duel, slaying Oberyn, and Tyrion is thus found guilty. [38] 
 Tywin faces huge political ramifications from the trial. Before slaying Oberyn, Gregor roars his guilt in slaying  Elia Martell  and her son  Aegon  for all the realm to hear. Tywin fears  Dorne  might join  Stannis Baratheon , which could prolong the  war  for years. He plans on having Gregor executed to appease  House Martell , but needs it to be seen to be the  King's Justice  who carries out the deed, not poison. Tywin commands  Pycelle  to heal Gregor, but Pycelle's efforts prove fruitless. [39] 
 Awaiting his sentencing, Tyrion is freed from the Red Keep's dungeon by his brother Jaime and a reluctant Varys. During his escape, Jaime reveals the truth about Tyrion's first wife Tysha, saying she was not a whore but a girl just met on the road and Tywin had made Jaime speak the lie to Tyrion. Tyrion is enraged by this and has Varys show him to a ladder that leads directly into the  Tower of the Hand , Tywin's residence, Tyrion finds his ex-lover  Shae  in Tywin's bed, wearing nothing but his father's golden chain of office. Tyrion strangles her to death with it. He then takes a crossbow from the wall and finds Tywin in the privy and confronts him about Tysha. Tywin remains belligerent, repeatedly calling her a whore, which Tyrion sees as the final insult; shooting him through his bowels with the crossbow, mortally wounding him. Tywin dies while seated on the privy, his bowels loosening in the moment of death causing Tyrion to think as he left his father's body:
 
 But the stink that filled the privy gave ample evidence that the oft-repeated jape about his father was just another lie. Lord Tywin Lannister did not, in the end, shit gold. [40] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After Tywin's body is discovered, it is prepared for a state burial.  Cersei  has the  Kettleblacks  remove the body of  Shae  and swears she will have the tongue removed of any man who mentions Shae was ever there. [10]  The remains of Lord Tywin are shown for seven days in the  Great Sept of Baelor  before making its way west with an entourage of knights and lords from the  westerlands . The smell of the body is so bad many of the mourners grow sick or faint from being too near. A drying of the mouth also causes Tywin's lips to curl up and make him appear to smile. [41]  This disturbs Jaime and Cersei, because Tywin Lannister seldom smiled.
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Now in  Essos , on his way to meet up with the crew of the  Shy Maid , Tyrion listens to what  Illyrio Mopatis  has to say about  Daenerys Targaryen  and he wonders,
 
 Are you down in some hell, Father? A nice cold hell where you can look up and see me help restore  Mad Aerys's   daughter  to the  Iron Throne ? [42] 
 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister  thinks of how Tywin would never have dreamed his golden daughter  Cersei  would experience a similar fate, a  walk of shame , as Tywin made their father  Tytos's  mistress suffer. [43] 
 
 Quotes by Tywin 
 No man is free. Only children and fools think elsewise. [18] 
  – Tywin, to  Tyrion Lannister 
 Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens. [35] 
  – Tywin, to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Tyrion:  Could the  Westerlings  and  Spicers  be such great fools as to believe  the wolf  can defeat  the lion ? 
 Tywin:  The greatest fools are ofttimes more clever than the men who laugh at them. [9] 
 
 – Tywin and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 There is a tool for every task, and a task for every tool. [37] 
  – Tywin, to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 When your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire. When they go to their knees, however, you must help them back to their feet. Elsewise no man will ever bend the knee to you. And any man who must say ‘I am the king’ is no true king at all.  Aerys  never understood that, but you will. When I’ve won  your war  for you, we will restore the king’s peace and the king’s justice. [14] 
 
 – Tywin, to  Joffrey Baratheon 
 
 
 I did not fight  a war  to seat  Robert  the Second on the  Iron Throne . [14] 
  – Tywin, to  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 You are not my son. You say you are the  Lord Commander of the Kingsguard , and only that. Very well, ser. Go do your duty. [44] 
 
 – Tywin, to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Tywin:  I suppose the steward sent her on her way. I never thought to inquire. 
 Tyrion:  On her way  where ? 
 
 Tywin:  Wherever whores go. [40] 
  – Tywin and  Tyrion Lannister , regarding  Tysha 
 
 
 Tywin:  You shot me. 
 Tyrion:  You always were quick to grasp a situation, my lord, that must be why you’re the  Hand of the King . 
 Tywin:  You ... you are no ... no son of mine. 
 
 Tyrion:  Now that’s where you’re wrong, Father. Why, I believe I’m you writ small. Do me a kindness now, and die quickly. I have a ship to catch.  [40] 
 
 – Tywin and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 Quotes about Tywin 
 I would sooner entrust a child to a pit viper than to Lord Tywin. [45] 
  –  Eddard Stark 's thoughts
 
 
 A fool more foolish than most had once jested that even Lord Tywin’s shit was flecked with gold. Some said the man was still alive, deep in the bowels of  Casterly Rock . [3] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Every once in a very long while, Lord Tywin Lannister would actually threaten to smile; he never did, but the threat alone was terrible to behold. [9] 
 
 –  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 Joffrey:  You talk about  Aerys , Grandfather, but you were scared of him. 
 Cersei:  Joffrey, apologize to your grandfather. 
 
 Joffrey:  Why should I? Everyone knows it’s true.  My father  won all the battles. He killed Prince  Rhaegar  and took the crown, while  your  father was hiding under  Casterly Rock . [14] 
 
 –  Joffrey Baratheon  and  Cersei Lannister 
 
 
 Kevan:  Tywin seems a hard man to you, but he's no harder than he's had to be.  Our own father  was gentle and amiable, but so weak his bannermen mocked him in their cups.  Some saw fit to defy him openly . Other lords borrowed his gold and never troubled to repay it. At court they japed of toothless lions. Even his own mistress stole from him. A woman scarcely one step above a whore, and she helped herself to my mother's jewels! It fell to Tywin to restore  House Lannister  to its proper place. Just as it fell to him to rule this realm, when he was no more than twenty. He bore that heavy burden for twenty years and all it earned him was  a mad king 's envy. Instead of the honor he deserved, he was made to suffer slights beyond count, yet he gave the  Seven Kingdoms  peace, plenty and justice. He is a just man. 
 Tyrion:  You love him. 
 
 Kevan:  He is my brother. [7] 
 
 –  Kevan Lannister  and  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Lord Tywin Lannister did not, in the end, shit gold. [40] 
  –  Tyrion Lannister 's thoughts
 
 
 I have served six kings, but here before us lies the greatest man I ever knew. Lord Tywin wore no crown, yet he was all a king should be. [41] 
 
 –  Pycelle 
 
 
 ...I remember the first time my father took me to court, Robert had to hold my hand. I could not have been older than four, which would have made him five or six. We agreed afterward that the king had been as noble as the dragons were fearsome. Years later, our father told us that Aerys had cut himself on the throne that morning, so his Hand had taken his place. It was Tywin Lannister who’d so impressed us. 
 
 –  Stannis Baratheon 
 
 
 Men say Tywin never smiled, but he smiled when he wed  your mother , and when  Aerys  made him  Hand . When  Tarbeck Hall  came crashing down on  Lady Ellyn , that scheming bitch,  Tyg  claimed he smiled then, and he smiled at your birth, Jaime, I saw with my own eyes. [11] 
 
 –  Genna Lannister , to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 I was seven when  Walder Frey  persuaded  my lord father  to give my hand to  Emm . His  second  son, not even his heir. Father was himself a thirdborn son, and younger children crave the approval of their elders. Frey sensed that weakness in him, and Father agreed for no better reason than to please him. My betrothal was announced at a feast with half  the west  in attendance.  Ellyn Tarbeck  laughed and the  Red Lion  went angry from the hall. The rest sat on their tongues. Only Tywin dared speak against the match. A boy of ten. Father turned as white as mare's milk, and Walder Frey was  quivering . How could I not love him after that? That is not to say I approved of all he did, or much enjoyed the company of the man he became ... but every little girl needs a big brother to protect her. Tywin was big even when he was little. [11] 
 
 –  Genna Lannister , to  Jaime Lannister 
 
 
 Family 
 Tywin married his cousin  Joanna Lannister , with whom he had three children:  Cersei ,  Jaime  and  Tyrion . Joanna died when giving birth to Tyrion.
 
 
                                     Tytos   Jeyne Marbrand                                       
                                                                                                                                                                     
             Tywin   Joanna Lannister   Kevan   Dorna Swyft   Emmon Frey   Genna   Tygett   Darlessa Marbrand   Gerion   Briony                     
                                                                                                                                       
 Robert Baratheon   Cersei   Jaime   Tyrion   Sansa Stark             Issue           Tyrek   Ermesande Hayford   Joy Hill               
                                                                                                                                       
 Joffrey Baratheon   Myrcella Baratheon   Tommen  Baratheon   Amerei Frey   Lancel   Martyn   Willem   Janei       
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Tywin Lannister  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Tywin Lannister. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 56 , Tyrion VII. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3     The World of Ice & Fire , House Lannister under the Dragons. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     The World of Ice & Fire , Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1   7.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 66 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 44 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1   9.2   9.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1   10.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 3 , Cersei I. 
 
 ↑  11.0   11.1   11.2   11.3     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 33 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑   Aerys's own unhappy marriage was arranged 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2   14.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 53 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  The Lannister Fleet 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 30 , Arya VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 42 , Tyrion VI. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 8 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 17 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 55 , Catelyn VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 62 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 69 , Tyrion IX. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 57 , Sansa V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 33 , Catelyn IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 38 , Arya VIII. 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1   So Spake Martin :  Tyrion and Tywin , July 27, 1999 
 
 ↑  29.0   29.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 44 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 ↑  31.0   31.1   31.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 14 , Catelyn II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 45 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 42 , Davos II. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 62 , Sansa VII. 
 
 ↑  35.0   35.1   35.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 4 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 64 , Arya X. 
 
 ↑  37.0   37.1   37.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 70 , Tyrion X. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 72 , Jaime IX. 
 
 ↑  40.0   40.1   40.2   40.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 77 , Tyrion XI. 
 
 ↑  41.0   41.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 8 , Jaime I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 5 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 62 , Jaime VII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 4 , Eddard I. 
 
 
 This page uses content from the English  Wikipedia . The original content was at  House Lannister . The list of authors can be seen in the  page history  of House Lannister. As with A Wiki of Ice and Fire, the content of Wikipedia is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License .
 
 External links 
 Tywin Lannister  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
 
 v d e 
 Hands of the King Hands with known terms 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Orys Baratheon  (1–7) 
 Edmyn Tully  (7–9) 
 Osmund Strong  (?–34) 
 Alyn Stokeworth  (34-37) 
 Maegor Targaryen  (37–39) 1 
 Murmison  (39–41) 
 Lucas Harroway  (?–44) 2 
 Edwell Celtigar  (44–?) 
 Rogar Baratheon  (48–?) 
 Barth  (59–99) 
 Ryam Redwyne  (99–100) 
 Baelon Targaryen  (100–101) 
 Otto Hightower  (101–109) 
 Lyonel Strong  (109–120) 
 Otto Hightower  (120–129) 
 Criston Cole  (129–130) 
 Cregan Stark  (131) 
 Tyland Lannister  (131–133) 
 Unwin Peake  (133–134) 
 Thaddeus Rowan  (134–?) 
 Marston Waters  (?–?) 
 Munkun  (?–?) 
 Torrhen Manderly  (?–136) 
 Viserys Targaryen  (?–171) 1 
 Lord Bracken  (172–?) 2 
 Lord Butterwell  (?–?) 
 Lucas Lothston  (178) 
 Jon Hightower  (?–?) 
 Ambrose Butterwell  (?–196) 
 Lord Hayford  (196) 
 Baelor Targaryen  (196–209) 
 Valarr Targaryen  (209) 3 
 Brynden Rivers  (209–c. 233) 
 Ormund Baratheon  (259–260) 
 Edgar Sloane  (?–262) 
 Tywin Lannister  (262–281) 
 Owen Merryweather  (281–283) 
 Jon Connington  (283) 
 Qarlton Chelsted  (283) 2 
 Rossart  (283) 
 Jon Arryn  (283–298) 
 Eddard Stark  (298) 2 
 Tyrion Lannister  (299) 4 
 Tywin Lannister  (298–300) 
 Harys Swyft  (300) 
 Orton Merryweather  (300) 
 Mace Tyrell  (300–) 
 Hands to claimants 
 Corlys Velaryon  (129–130) 
 Mace Tyrell  (298–299) 
 Alester Florent  (299) 2 
 Davos Seaworth  (299–) 
 Axell Florent  (299–) 5 
 Jon Connington  (300–) 
 Barristan Selmy  (300–) 
 
 Hands of unknown eras 
 Hands to the  Iron Throne 
 Myles Smallwood 
 
 
 1 Rose to the throne 
 2 Killed by his monarch 
 3 May or may not have been Hand 
 4 Acting Hand, representing Tywin 
 5 Styles himself Queen's Hand, serving as a rival to Davos 
 
 v d e 
Known members of the  small council Under  Aegon I Targaryen 
 Orys Baratheon 
 Crispian Celtigar 
 Addison Hill 
 Triston Massey 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Osmund Strong 
 Edmyn Tully 
 Aethan Velaryon 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Daemon Velaryon 
 Under  Aenys I Targaryen 
 Alyn Stokeworth 
 Gawen 
 Maegor Targaryen 
 Murmison 
 Under  Maegor I Targaryen 
 Edwell Celtigar 
 Alton Butterwell 
 Gawen 
 Desmond 
 Myres 
 Benifer 
 Lucas Harroway 
 Tyanna of Pentos 
 Under  Jaehaerys I Targaryen 
 Robar Baratheon 
 Barth 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Baelon Targaryen 
 Otto Hightower 
 Alyssa Velaryon 
 Under  Viserys I Targaryen 
 Lyman Beesbury 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Mellos 
 Orwyle 
 Runciter 
 Lyonel Strong 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Larys Strong 
 Ryam Redwyne 
 Daemon Targaryen 
 Harrold Westerling 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon II Targaryen 
 Criston Cole 
 Otto Hightower 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Orwyle 
 Larys Strong 
 Corlys Velaryon 
 Jasper Wylde 
 Under  Aegon III Targaryen 
 Tyland Lannister 
 Torrhen Manderly 
 Munkun 
 Unwin Peake 
 Thaddeus Rowan 
 Cregan Stark 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Marston Waters 
 Alford 
 Under  Daeron I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Alyn Velaryon 
 Under  Baelor I Targaryen 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 Under  Aegon IV Targaryen 
 Lord Bracken 
 Lord Butterwell 
 Jon Hightower 
 Under  Daeron II Targaryen 
 Ambrose Butterwell 
 Lord Hayford 
 Ronnel Penrose 
 Baelor Targaryen 
 Valarr Targaryen 1 
 Under  Aerys I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Maekar I Targaryen 
 Brynden Rivers 
 Under  Aegon V Targaryen 
 Duncan the Tall 
 Ellendor 
 Kaeth 
 Merion 
 Pycelle 
 Under  Jaehaerys II Targaryen 
 Ormund Baratheon 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Pycelle 
 Edgar Sloane 
 Under  Aerys II Targaryen 
 Qarlton Chelsted 
 Jon Connington 
 Gerold Hightower 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Owen Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Rossart 
 Symond Staunton 
 Lucerys Velaryon 
 Varys 
 Under  Robert I Baratheon 
 Jon Arryn 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Renly Baratheon 
 Stannis Baratheon 
 Pycelle 
 Barristan Selmy 
 Eddard Stark 
 Varys 
 Under  Joffrey I Baratheon 
 High Septon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Tyrion Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Pycelle 
 Petyr Baelish 
 Varys 
 Janos Slynt 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Mathis Rowan 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Under  Tommen I Baratheon 
 Cersei Lannister 
 Jaime Lannister 
 Kevan Lannister 
 Tywin Lannister 
 Oberyn Martell 
 Orton Merryweather 
 Pycelle 
 Qyburn 
 Paxter Redwyne 
 Gyles Rosby 
 Nymeria Sand 
 Harys Swyft 
 Randyll Tarly 
 Mace Tyrell 
 Varys 
 Aurane Waters 
 
 1 It is unknown whether "...sweet Matarys and Valarr, the Hand." indicates that Valarr was Hand, or that Matarys, Valarr, and an unnamed Hand of the King died during the Spring Sickness.
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Tywin_Lannister&oldid=219176 "  
 Categories :  House Lannister Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters from the Westerlands Characters killed by Tyrion Lannister Cupbearers Hands of the King Knights Lords of Casterly Rock Members of Aegon V Targaryen's court Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Members of Joffrey Baratheon's court Members of Tommen Baratheon's court Nobles Pages Rebels of Robert's Rebellion Supporters of Joffrey Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Supporters of Tommen Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings Veterans of Greyjoy's Rebellion Veterans of Robert's Rebellion Veterans of the War of the Ninepenny Kings Wardens   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
