
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Vardis Egen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Vardis Egen  
 
 Title 
 Ser Captain of the guards Allegiance 
 House Egen House Arryn Culture 
 Valemen Born 
In or between  249 AC  and  253 AC [1] Died 
In  298 AC , at the  Eyrie [2] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Brendan McCormack TV series 
 Season 1 
 Ser  Vardis Egen  is a  knight  of  House Egen  and captain of the  household guard  at the  Eyrie . He has at least one young son. [3]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is played by Brendan McCormack. [4] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Vardis 
 5   References 
 6   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Vardis Egen 
 Vardis is heavily built, with a square, plain face, and silver hair. He is humorless. [5] 
 
 History 
 During Lord  Jon Arryn 's time at  King's Landing  as  Hand of the King , Vardis served as his  captain of the guards . [ citation needed ] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Ser Vardis greets Lady  Catelyn Stark  upon her arrival at the  Eyrie . [6]  He is present when  Tyrion Lannister  demands a  trial by combat  to demonstrate his innocence in the death of Lord  Jon Arryn . Vardis is chosen as the champion for  House Arryn  by Jon's widow, Lady  Lysa Arryn . He wields Lord Arryn's silver falcon sword and is dressed in mail. The armor makes him slow and clumsy, however, and  Bronn , Tyrion's champion, kills Vardis easily. [2] 
 
 Quotes about Vardis 
 Ser Vardis Egen, you were ever my  lord husband's  good right hand. You shall be our champion. [5] 
  –  Lysa Arryn , to Vardis
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Vardis Egen  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 40 , Catelyn VII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑   Vardis Egen  article on the Game of Thrones Wikia 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 34 , Catelyn VI. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Vardis Egen  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Vardis_Egen&oldid=211378 "  
 Categories :  Articles with unsourced statements House Egen Captains of the guards Characters from the Vale Characters killed by Bronn House Arryn guards Knights Members of Robert Baratheon's court Nobles Hidden category:  Articles that Need Verification   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
