
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español فارسی Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Viserys Targaryen 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Viserys Targaryen  
 Viserys Targaryen - by Amok © 
 Alias 
The Beggar King [1] [2] [3] Khal Rhae Mhar [4]   (the Sorefoot King) Khal Rhaggat [4]   (the Cart King) Title 
 King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men  (claimant) Lord of the Seven Kingdoms  (claimant) Protector of the Realm  (claimant) Allegiance 
 House Targaryen Race 
 Valyrian Culture 
 Free Cities Born 
In  276 AC [5] , at  King's Landing [5] Died 
In  298 AC [6] , at  Vaes Dothrak [6] Book(s) 
 The World of Ice & Fire  (mentioned) A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) The Winds of Winter  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Harry Lloyd TV series 
 Season 1 
 For other uses, see  Viserys Targaryen (disambiguation) . 
 Prince  Viserys Targaryen [7]  is the heir of his father, King  Aerys II Targaryen , following the death of his older brother, Prince  Rhaegar , during  Robert's Rebellion . [8]  The war turned Viserys and his younger sister,  Daenerys ,  Princess of Dragonstone , into exiles from the  Seven Kingdoms  who can only plot to regain control of the  Iron Throne . [9] 
 He styles himself as " Viserys of the  House Targaryen , the Third of his Name,  King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men ,  Lord of the Seven Kingdoms  and  Protector of the Realm ", [9]  as he had been declared king on  Dragonstone  after his father's death. [10]  In the  Free Cities [9] [11]  Viserys was called " the Beggar King ", a name which spread towards the  Seven Kingdoms . [12] [1] [2] [3]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Harry Lloyd .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 
 2.1   Early life 
 2.2   Robert's Rebellion 
 2.3   Exile 
 
 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 3.6   The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Viserys 
 5   Quotes about Viserys 
 6   Family 
 7   Notes 
 8   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Viserys Targaryen 
 Viserys possesses the classical Valyrian features: he has pale skin, silver-blond hair, and pale  lilac eyes . [9] [13] [14] [6] [15]  He had been a small, robust, and healthy child, [5]  but in his early twenties, after more than a decade of living in exile, Viserys has become a gaunt young man with hard lines in his face and a feverish look in his eyes. [9]  He prefers to dress in silks and wool, [14] [4] [6]  keeps a sachet in the sleeve of his tunic to sniff, [4]  and wears a borrowed sword to look more "kingly". [9] [6]  He was not as tall as his older brother  Rhaegar  had been. [15] 
 Viserys is considered to be a cruel, weak, frightened,  [16] [17]  impatient, [18] [17]  vain, greedy, [19]  stupid and foolish man. [17] [20]  He is violent and abusive with many, [4]  including his sister  Daenerys , whom he blames for their mother's death. [9]  The fifteen years Viserys spend in exile were hard on him. He kept lusting after his  father's   throne , [19]  and became obsessed with winning back the  Seven Kingdoms . [9]  He became an angry and bitter man, [21]  and when he was forced to sell his  mother's  crown, the last joy had gone from him, leaving only rage. [22]  His sister Daenerys considers his anger, which Viserys himself called "waking the dragon", to be "a terrible thing when roused". [9]  Daenerys believes that Viserys has been  driven mad  by his exile and the status of beggar it eventually gave him. [21]  However, according to  Barristan Selmy , Viserys already often seemed to show signs of madness as a young child, like his father had. [23] 
 Viserys loves to talk about dragons, [24]  and has a hatred for horsemeat [4]  and fermented mare's milk. [6] 
 
 History 
 Early life 
 Prince Viserys was born in  King's Landing  in  276 AC  to King  Aerys II Targaryen  and his sister-wife Queen  Rhaella , their first child to survive in the seventeen years since their son  Rhaegar 's birth, after multiple stillbirths, miscarriages, and infant deaths. The celebrated Viserys was small but robust and beautiful. [5] 
 Aerys's paranoia made him fear for the infant's life beyond reason, however. The  Kingsguard  watched him day and night, and Rhaella was forbidden to be alone with her son. Aerys insisted that his food taster drink from the breasts of the prince's  wet nurse , to make sure she had not smeared  poison  on her nipples. The king burned gifts sent by Westerosi  lords , thinking they might be  cursed . Lord  Tywin Lannister  hosted a  tournament in honor of Viserys's birth  in  Lannisport , but only Aerys and Rhaegar attended from the royal family. When Rhaegar married  Elia Martell  in the  Great Sept of Baelor  in  280 AC , Aerys refused to allow Viserys to attend. [5] 
 
 Robert's Rebellion 
 Viserys was only a young boy at the time of  Robert's Rebellion , and Queen  Rhaella  sheltered him from King  Aerys's  madness as much as she could. [25]  When his brother  Rhaegar  was killed at the  Battle of the Trident , Viserys was named his father's heir, passing over Rhaegar's infant son  Aegon . Viserys was sent with the pregnant Rhaella to the fortified island of  Dragonstone . [8] [9] [26]  After news of Aerys's death and the deaths of Rhaegar's children in the  Sack of King's Landing  reached Dragonstone, Viserys was declared king. [10] 
 In  284 AC , nine months after they fled King's Landing, Rhaella died while giving birth to Viserys's younger sister,  Daenerys , during a storm which destroyed most of the  Targaryen fleet , which had been anchored at Dragonstone. [9]   Stannis Baratheon  was about to set sail with his new fleet for the  assault on Dragonstone , and the garrison of Dragonstone was prepared to turn Viserys and his sister over to him, but Ser  Willem Darry  and four loyal men smuggled the children to the  Braavosian coast . [9] [27] 
 
 Exile 
   Viserys and  Daenerys Targaryen  wandering in  Essos , by Jacqui Davis © 
 Viserys and  Daenerys  lived under Ser  Willem Darry 's protection in a  house with a red door  in  Braavos . [9]  While they lived in Braavos, Willem signed a  secret marriage pact  with Prince  Oberyn Martell  of  Dorne , with the  Sealord of Braavos  as a witness, agreeing that Viserys would take Princess  Arianne Martell , daughter to  Doran Martell , the  Prince of Dorne , as his bride in exchange for Dorne supporting his claim for the throne. However, Viserys was never made aware of this pact, [28] [18]  as he was an immature child when it was decided, and he was not ready for the information. [29]  Willem fell ill five years after fleeing from Dragonstone, however, and eventually died. [9] [30] 
 After Willem's death, the servants stole what little money the children had, leaving Viserys and his sister impoverished. They were put out of the house in Braavos soon after. [9]  Viserys and Daenerys began to wander the  Free Cities  as guests of powerful citizens. From Braavos, they went to  Myr , next to  Tyrosh , on to  Qohor ,  Volantis , and  Lys , never staying long at one location. Viserys was convinced they were being followed by the hired knives of the  Usurper , King  Robert I Baratheon . While originally they were welcomed into the homes of the powerful citizens of the Free Cities, their welcome eventually faded, and they were forced to sell off their last possessions to survive. [9]  Selling Rhaella's crown took the last joy had from Viserys, leaving only rage. [22]  Over time, men started calling him the Beggar King. [9] [12]  At some point Viserys feasted the captains of the  Golden Company , in hopes they might take up his cause and restore him to the throne of Westeros. They ate his food and heard his pleas, but only laughed at him. [31] 
 While his relationship with his sister was initially warm, Viserys grew to resent Daenerys for the death of their mother during her birth, and began treating her abusively, both with cruel words and with physical assaults. He would frequently warn her not to "wake the  dragon " and incite his anger. [9]  Viserys taught Daenerys all he knew of Westeros history and the history of House Targaryen, teaching her to take pride in her family heritage, [9] [6]  though sometimes abusively. [17]  Daenerys always expected she would marry Viserys when she came of age, as Viserys had often told her the line must be kept pure and that Targaryens did not mingle their blood with that of lesser men. [9] 
 Viserys and Daenerys have been guests for half a year at  the manse  of  Magister   Illyrio Mopatis  in  Pentos . [9]  One servant, a  young girl  trained in  Lys , is purchased by Illyrio to please the would-be king. [32] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   You don't want to wake the dragon, do you? - by aprilis420 © 
 In  Pentos , Magister  Illyrio Mopatis  takes an interest in returning Viserys to the  Iron Throne  in return for rewards upon his ascension. Illyrio and Viserys arrange a marriage between  Daenerys  and Khal  Drogo , a powerful  Dothraki  horselord who promises Viserys an army which he can use to conquer the  Seven Kingdoms . [9]  Viserys believes he could conquer Westeros with only ten thousand Dothraki screamers, and that among [9]  the houses that would rise for him upon his landing would be the  Tyrells ,  Redwynes ,  Darrys ,  Greyjoys , and  Martells , and that the  smallfolk  cry out for the return of  House Targaryen . Viserys says when he takes Westeros, he will kill the  Usurper , King  Robert I Baratheon , and also the  Kingslayer , Ser  Jaime Lannister . [9] 
 Viserys, while willing to wed Daenerys to Drogo, is resentful of having to give her up, and the night before the wedding tries to enter her room and claim her  maidenhead . Illyrio, however, has the foresight to post guards on her room and ensure the impetuous Viserys does not undo "years of planning". [19]  At the wedding feast, Viserys meets the exile knight Ser  Jorah Mormont , [9]  who swears himself to his service. [13]  Viserys gifts his sister with three handmaids,  Irri ,  Jhiqui , and  Doreah . Viserys is angered at having to sit in a place below Daenerys and at being offered the food that only the  khal  and his bride have already refused. Before Daenerys and Drogo leave to consummate the marriage, Viserys warns his sister that she must please Drogo, or else she "will see the dragon wake as it has never woken before." [13] 
 After the wedding, Khal Drogo's  khalasar  leaves for  Vaes Dothrak  to present the new  khaleesi  Daenerys to the  dosh khaleen . Viserys insists on traveling along to ensure the  khal  honors the agreement of support. Viserys believes that Drogo is delaying fulfillment of his promise, and grows increasingly insistent on making a start to the invasion. He believes he sold Daenerys to Drogo, and that the  khal  has not paid him for her, although Illyrio and Jorah try to explain that the Dothraki do not buy or sell, but rather receive gifts and give gifts back eventually in return. [14] 
 Viserys tries to browbeat Daenerys into persuading Drogo, but with her new position of authority as  khaleesi  she begins standing up for herself. When Daenerys wishes to experience the  Dothraki sea  in solitude, she requests that Jorah tell Viserys and the rest of her  khas  to stay behind. Viserys becomes infuriated at Daenerys giving him a command, and verbally and physically assaults her. She defends herself, and one of the young warriors of her  khas ,  Jhogo  defends his  khaleesi , snapping a whip around Viserys's neck. Daenerys commands that he not be harmed, only that his horse be taken away, forcing Viserys to walk. Viserys demands that Jorah hurt Daenerys and kill the Dothraki for this insult, but the knight ignores Viserys and enforces Daenerys's orders. Jorah regrets swearing himself to Viserys's service, and intimates to Daenerys that Viserys would be a terrible king. Daenerys realizes that Viserys will never win the Iron Throne and take her back to Westeros, as he is not respected and could not lead an army even if Khal Drogo gives him one. [14] 
 
   Viserys Targaryen, the "Cart King" - by Kim Sokol © FFG 
 When Viserys walks back to the  khalasar , he is greatly shamed in the eyes of the Dothraki, as they feel a man who does not ride is no man at all, and this earns him the mocking nickname  Khal Rhae Mhar , the Sorefoot King. Khal Drogo later offers him a place in a cart and Viserys accepts, in his ignorance believing it the  khal's  way of apologizing to him for the wrong Daenerys did to him. Unknown to Viserys, this is a greater insult than walking on foot — as carts are for cripples,  eunuchs , the very old or very young — which earns Viserys the new nickname  Khal Rhaggat , the Cart King. [4] 
 At Vaes Dothrak, Daenerys wishes to reconcile with Viserys, and prepares gifts for him, including new Dothraki-style clothing "fit for a  khal " to replace his filthy garments. However, when Daenerys sends Doreah to request that Viserys join her at dinner, he takes offense that she would send a whore to give him commands and strikes the woman, before angrily approaching Daenerys. He mocks the clothes and the idea that he should dress like a "savage", and begins to assault Daenerys until she defends herself, hitting him with the belt of bronze medallions she had hoped to give him. Viserys storms off angrily, saying she will rue this day when he regains his kingdom. [4] 
 
   Khal  Drogo  crowns Viserys with molten gold ( Game of Thrones ) 
 The day of the ritual ceremony for Daenerys's unborn child,  Rhaego , Jorah stops Viserys from stealing Daenerys's  dragon eggs , intending to sell to the traders of Vaes Dothrak for gold to buy himself a  sellsword  army. The feasting Dothraki are then greatly offended by a drunken Viserys wielding a sword in Drogo's hall, as blades are banned in the sacred city of Vaes Dothrak and it is forbidden to shed a free man's blood there. Khal Drogo does not let Viserys sit at the high bench but rather tells him to sit with the cripples and boys, and all the Dothraki laugh and mock Viserys. Viserys draws his sword, angering the Dothraki, and threatens Daenerys's unborn child while again insisting that Drogo give him his crown. In response, Drogo has Viserys seized by his  bloodriders , melts down his belt of golden medallions, and upends the pot over Viserys's head, fatally but bloodlessly "crowning" him with molten gold. [6] 
 After Daenerys is nearly assassinated in the Vaes Dothrak marketplace, she learns that King Robert has offered lands and  lordships  for her death or Viserys's; [33]  she half-hysterically sobs and tells Jorah that the Usurper owes Drogo a lordship. [34] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Word of Viserys's death reaches Westeros not long after King  Joffrey I Baratheon 's execution of Lord  Eddard Stark . [1] 
 In the  red waste , Daenerys remembers that Viserys told her when they were children that only  dragons  and men eat cooked meat, which enables her to finally find a way to feed her newborn  dragons . Daenerys names her white dragon  Viserion  in his memory. [16] 
 While wondering how she can succeed in taking back her father's throne, Daenerys recalls that Viserys had believed that the realm would rise for its rightful king. Although she considers the notion to have been a foolish one, [20]  there appears to have been some truth to his beliefs. [N 1] 
 In  Qarth , after being refused help by the  Pureborn , Daenerys remembers how Viserys was forced to survive in order to take care of them, and the negative effect it had on him, and that she has now found herself in the same position. [21] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 While traveling to  Astapor  by ship, Daenerys recalls a young Viserys telling her tales of the  Seven Kingdoms  and of how much better their lives would be once he claimed his crown. [17] 
 In  Meereen  Ser  Barristan Selmy  tells Daenerys that Viserys was  his father 's son, in ways  Rhaegar  never was. [23] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 At  Sunspear ,  Arianne Martell  learns from her father,  Doran , of a  secret marriage pact  between Houses Targaryen and  Martell . While her younger brother  Quentyn  was to rule  Dorne , Arianne was intended to marry the exiled Viserys. Doran, the  Prince of Dorne , had suggested older consorts for her to marry, knowing she would reject them. Doran planned to send Arianne to  Tyrosh  to serve as the  Archon 's cupbearer and meet Viserys in secret, but Doran's wife,  Mellario , had been so upset by Quentyn's fostering at  Yronwood  that Doran could not bear to take another of her children from her, and Arianne was never told of her betrothal to Viserys. With Viserys now dead, Doran intends for Arianne to rule Dorne and sends Quentyn to court Daenerys in Meereen. [28] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 In Meereen, Ser  Barristan Selmy  tells Daenerys that after he was dismissed from the  Kingsguard  by  Joffrey I Baratheon , he realised that he had to redeem himself by finding the true king, meaning Viserys, and serve him loyally with all the strength that still remained to him. [24]  Daenerys remembers that Viserys had told her stories of the  tourneys  he had witnessed in the  Seven Kingdoms . [35] 
 Ser  Tristan Rivers  reveals that one of  Magister   Illyrio Mopatis 's plans was for Viserys to join the  Golden Company  with fifty thousand  Dothraki  screamers at his back, but then the Beggar King died, putting an end to that plan. [3] 
 Upon  Quentyn Martell 's arrival at Daenerys's court in Meereen, he informs her of the  secret marriage pact  concluded by Ser  Willem Darry  and  Oberyn Martell  with the  Sealord of Braavos  as witness, while Viserys and Daenerys were living in  Braavos . It promised that if Viserys wed  Arianne Martell  he would receive  Dorne 's aid in placing him upon the  Iron Throne . Daenerys realizes that if her brother had known that he had a Dornish princess waiting for him, he would have crossed to  Sunspear  as soon as he was old enough to wed. Quentyn agrees that this would have brought  Robert I Baratheon 's wrath down on Dorne and that Doran was content to wait until Viserys found an army. Quentyn had been sent to Meereen by his father to fulfill the pact; instead of Viserys marrying Arianne, Quentyn would marry Daenerys and give her the support of Dorne. [18]  Barristan tells Quentyn that the pact, written by two dead men and referring to a dead man, cannot be enforced for him and Daenerys. [36] 
 Near " Dragonstone " in the  Dothraki sea  after fleeing  Daznak's Pit  atop  Drogon , [37]  Daenerys dreams of Viserys. Her burnt and gilded brother accuses her of not having mourned him. The siblings argue about Daenerys marriage to  Drogo , the delay in Viserys receiving a Dothraki  khalasar , and Daenerys receiving  dragon eggs  from Illyrio. Viserys's jaw falls away as he laughs in the dream. [38] 
 
 The Winds of Winter 
 
 
 
   Warning    This information has thus far been released in a sample chapter for  The Winds of Winter , and might therefore not be in finalized form. Keep in mind that the content as described below is still subject to change. 
 Stannis Baratheon  tells Ser  Justin Massey  that he will not leave  Westeros  to raise an army, as exiles rarely return, using the beggar king Viserys as an example. [39] 
 While sailing the  Sea of Dorne  to  Cape Wrath , Arianne discusses Viserys and his death with Ser  Daemon Sand . [40]  Near  Griffin's Roost , Arianne encounters  Lysono Maar  of the  Golden Company . She says the  Lyseni 's appearance (long silver-gold hair and pale  lilac eyes ) reminds her of a Targaryen, which he finds flattering. She is somewhat unnerved by Lysono, however, and thinks it is perhaps a good thing that Viserys is dead if that is what her betrothed looked like. [41] 
 
 Quotes by Viserys 
   Harry Lloyd as Viserys Targaryen ( Game of Thrones ) 
 We go  home  with an army, sweet sister. With Khal  Drogo 's army, that is how we go home. And if you must wed him and bed him for that, you will. I'd let his whole  khalasar  fuck you if need be, sweet sister, all forty thousand men, and their horses too if that was what it took to get my army. [9] 
  – Viserys to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Daenerys :  He  says you shall have a splendid golden crown that men shall tremble to behold. 
 Viserys : That was all I wanted. What was promised. [6] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  and Viserys
 
 
 No, you cannot touch me, I am the  dragon , the  dragon , and I will be  crowned ! [6] 
  – Viserys to  Drogo 's  bloodriders 
 
 
 Viserys : You were supposed to be my wife, to bear me children with silver hair and  purple eyes , to keep the  blood of the dragon  pure. I took care of you. I taught you who you were. I fed you. I sold  our mother's  crown to keep you fed. 
 Daenerys : You hurt me. You frightened me. 
 Viserys : Only when you woke the dragon. I loved you. 
 Daenerys : You sold me. You betrayed me. 
 Viserys : No. You were the betrayer. You turned against me, against your own blood. They cheated me. Your  horsey husband  and his  stinking savages . They were cheats and liars. They promised me a golden crown and gave me  this . 
 
 Daenerys : You could have had your crown. My  sun-and-stars  would have won it for you if only you had waited. [38] 
  – Viserys in a dream of  Daenerys Targaryen 
 Quotes about Viserys 
 Viserys is less than the shadow of a snake. [14] 
  –  Jorah Mormont  to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 My mother  died giving me birth, and  my father  and my brother  Rhaegar  even before that. I would never have known so much as their names if Viserys had not been there to tell me. He was the only one left. The only one. He is all I have. [6] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  to  Jorah Mormont 
 
 
 He was no  dragon . Fire cannot kill a dragon. [6] 
  – thoughts of  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 The Beggar King is dead. Viserys. The last son of Mad King  Aerys . He's been going about the  Free Cities  since before I was born, calling himself a king. Well,  Mother  says the  Dothraki  finally crowned him. With molten gold. [1] 
  –  Joffrey I Baratheon  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 The cream-and-gold I call  Viserion . Viserys was cruel and weak and frightened, yet he was my brother still. His  dragon  will do what he could not. [16] 
  –  Daenerys Targaryen  to her  Queensguard 
 
 
 Even as a child, your brother Viserys oft seemed to be  his father 's son,  in ways   Rhaegar  never did. [23] 
  –  Barristan Selmy  to  Daenerys Targaryen 
 
 
 Arianne : Who is it? Who have I been betrothed to, all these years? 
 Doran : It makes no matter. He is dead. 
 Arianne : The old ones are so frail. Was it a broken hip, a chill, the gout? 
 
 Doran : It was a pot of molten gold. We princes make our careful plans and the gods smash them all awry. [28] 
  –  Arianne Martell  and  Doran Martell 
 
 
 Words are wind, and the wind that blows exiles across the  narrow sea  seldom blows them back. That boy Viserys Targaryen spoke of return as well. He slipped through my fingers at  Dragonstone , only to spend his life wheedling after  sellswords . "The Beggar King," they called him in the  Free Cities . [39] 
  –  Stannis Baratheon  to  Justin Massey 
 Family 
 
                         Aegon V   Betha Blackwood       
                                                                                                             
     Duncan   Jenny of Oldstones   Jaehaerys II   Shaera   Daeron   Rhaelle   Ormund Baratheon           
                                                                         
                     Aerys II   Rhaella               House Baratheon     
                                                                                                                                     
 Rhaegar   Elia Martell   Shaena     stillborn child     Jaehaerys     Drogo   Daenerys   Hizdahr zo Loraq             
                                                                             
 Rhaenys   Aegon       Daeron   Aegon   Viserys   Rhaego 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 ↑   At  Castle Darry ,  House Darry  still displays Targaryen  tapestries  fifteen years after  Robert's Rebellion  ( A Feast for Crows ,  Jaime IV ); The  Martells  of  Dorne  signed a  secret marriage pact  promising to aid Viserys's cause ( A Dance with Dragons ,  Daenerys VII ); In the  riverlands , a peasant speaks of better days in the past under King  Aerys II Targaryen  ( A Clash of Kings ,  Arya VI ). 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 2 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 24 , The Lost Lord. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.7     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4     The World of Ice & Fire , The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. 
 
 ↑  6.00   6.01   6.02   6.03   6.04   6.05   6.06   6.07   6.08   6.09   6.10   6.11     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 46 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Appendix . 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1     The World of Ice & Fire , The Fall of the Dragons: The End. 
 
 ↑  9.00   9.01   9.02   9.03   9.04   9.05   9.06   9.07   9.08   9.09   9.10   9.11   9.12   9.13   9.14   9.15   9.16   9.17   9.18   9.19   9.20   9.21   9.22   9.23   9.24   9.25     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 3 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  10.0   10.1     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Rhaella Targaryen. 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter , Theon I 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 12 , Eddard II. 
 
 ↑  13.0   13.1   13.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  14.0   14.1   14.2   14.3   14.4     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 23 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  15.0   15.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 48 , Daenerys IV. 
 
 ↑  16.0   16.1   16.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  17.0   17.1   17.2   17.3   17.4     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  18.0   18.1   18.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 43 , Daenerys VII. 
 
 ↑  19.0   19.1   19.2     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 5 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  20.0   20.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  21.0   21.1   21.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 40 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  22.0   22.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  23.0   23.1   23.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑  24.0   24.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 11 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 36 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 37 , Jaime V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  28.0   28.1   28.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 40 , Princess In The Tower. 
 
 ↑   So Spake Martin :  Asshai.com Interview in Barcelona (July 28, 2012) 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Daenerys Targaryen. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 16 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 1 , Tyrion I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 33 , Eddard VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 54 , Daenerys VI. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 30 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 59 , The Discarded Knight. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 52 , Daenerys IX. 
 
 ↑  38.0   38.1     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 71 , Daenerys X. 
 
 ↑  39.0   39.1   The Winds of Winter ,  Theon I 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne I 
 
 ↑   The Winds of Winter ,  Arianne II 
 
 
 v d e 
Kings and Queens in  Westeros  since  Aegon's Conquest Iron Throne King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men 
 Official succession 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon I   (1–37) 
 Aenys I  (37–42) 
 Maegor I  (42–48) 
 Jaehaerys I  (48–103) 
 Viserys I  (103–129) 
 Aegon II  (129–131) 
 Aegon III  (131–157) 
 Daeron I  (157–161) 
 Baelor I  (161–171) 
 Viserys II  (171–172) 
 Aegon IV  (172–184) 
 Daeron II  (184–209) 
 Aerys I  (209–221) 
 Maekar I  (221–233) 
 Aegon V  (233–259) 
 Jaehaerys II  (259–262) 
 Aerys II  (262–283) 
 Baratheons 
 Robert I  (283–298) 
 Joffrey I  (298–300) 
 Tommen I  (300–Present) 
 
 Rivals and claimants 
 Targaryens 
 Aegon son of Aenys I  (42–43) 
 Rhaenyra I  (129–130) 
 Viserys III  (283–298) 
 Daenerys I  (298–Present) 
 Aegon son of Rhaegar  (300–Present) 
 Baratheons 
 Renly I  (298–299) 
 Stannis I  (299–Present) 
 
 Bastard pretenders 
 Gaemon Palehair  (130) 
 Trystane Truefyre  (130) 
 Daemon I Blackfyre  (196) 
 Daemon II Blackfyre  (196–?) 
 Haegon I Blackfyre  (?–219) 
 Daemon III Blackfyre  (219–236) 
 Maelys I Blackfyre  (?–260) 
 
 Independence movements 
 Storm King 
 Lyonel Baratheon  (unknown, between 239 AC and 245 AC) 
 King of the Iron Islands 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (289) 
 King of the Isles and the North 
 Balon IX Greyjoy  (299) 
 Euron III Greyjoy  (300–Present) 
 King in the North King of the Trident 
 Robb Stark  (299) 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Viserys_Targaryen&oldid=218739 "  
 Categories :  House Targaryen Characters from the Crownlands Claimants to the Iron Throne Exiles Members of Aerys II Targaryen's court Nobles Princes of Dragonstone Characters killed by Drogo Hidden category:  Pages with the race parameter   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
