
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Waymar Royce 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:	  navigation ,  search 
 
  Waymar Royce  
 by Amok © 
 Title 
 Ser Allegiance 
 House Royce Night's Watch Culture 
 Valemen Born 
In  278 AC  or  279 AC [1] , at  Runestone [2] Died 
In  297 AC [1] , at the  haunted forest ,  beyond the Wall Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Rob Ostlere TV series 
 Season 1 
 Ser  Waymar Royce  is a  knight  of  House Royce . The third and youngest son of Lord  Yohn Royce , he became a  ranger  of the  Night's Watch . In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones , Waymar is played by  Rob Ostlere .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes by Waymar 
 5   Quotes about Waymar 
 6   Family 
 7   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Waymar Royce 
 Waymar is handsome, graceful and slender, with grey eyes. He wears leather boots, woolen pants, moleskin gloves, a sable cloak, and ringmail over layers of wool and boiled leather, all in black. [3]  Waymar rides a black destrier and wields a longsword, the hilt of which is decorated with jewels. [3] 
 Waymar displays a sense of entitlement as well as arrogance towards more experienced members of the  Night's Watch . [4] 
 
 History 
 As a third son of a lord, Waymar had few chances at wealth or land and so joined the  Night's Watch . [3]  He was escorted by his father, Lord  Yohn Royce , north to the  Wall . While they stayed at  Winterfell  as guests on the way,  Sansa Stark  fell wildly in love with Waymar. [5]  Among the brothers of the Night's Watch, Waymar's behavior and appearance earned him some ridicule behind his back, including from  Gared  and  Will . [3] 
 Shortly before  A Song of Ice and Fire  begins, Lord Commander  Jeor Mormont  gave Waymar the command of a ranging in the  haunted forest  in search of a band of  wildling  raiders. He was accompanied by  Gared  and  Will . Waymar was the least experienced of the three, having been in the Night's Watch for less than half a year, whereas Jeor counted Gared and Will among his best men. However, Waymar felt it was his due to have a command because he was a  knight , and Jeor accepted because he did not want to offend Waymar's father. [4] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
   Waymar is attacked by the  Others  - by Amok © 
 On the ninth day of ranging north and northest through the  haunted forest ,  Will  discovers a camp of eight immobile  wildlings .  Gared  tries to persuade Ser Waymar to head back to the  Wall , but without luck. While they approach the camp, Gared says he can feel something is wrong, but Waymar mocks the experienced ranger. Gared intends to make a fire, arguing that fire can keep some enemies away, but Waymar calls him a fool. [3] 
 When they are at the wildling camp, Will and Waymar cannot find any bodies. Will climbs a tree to look for them, and both men feel markedly colder. Suddenly, Waymar is surrounded by  Others . Though Waymar bravely duels an Other, he is blinded when his longsword shatters, and the group of Others swiftly kill the knight. Will stays in the trees until he is sure that the Others have left. When Will descends, he is attacked and strangled by Waymar, who has been turned into a  wight  with a blue eye. [3]  Gared escapes south of the  Wall , but he is executed by Lord  Eddard Stark  for desertion. [6] 
 Jeor Mormont ,  Lord Commander of the Night's Watch , laments to  Tyrion Lannister  that he gave command to someone as inexperienced as Waymar. Jeor sends  Benjen Stark  to search for the missing rangers, but Benjen also disappears. [4] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Craster  tells Jeor that the three rangers stopped at  Craster's Keep  during their search for raiders. [7] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 As  Tormund 's free folk pass through the Wall at  Castle Black , they surrender treasures to the Night's Watch. One man relinquishes a broken sword with three sapphires in the hilt, possibly Waymar's sword. [8] 
 
 Quotes by Waymar 
 I am not going back to  Castle Black  a failure on my first  ranging . [3] 
  -  Waymar  to  Will 
 
 
 Dance with me then. [3] 
  – Waymar to an  Other 
 Quotes about Waymar 
 Ser Waymar had been a Sworn Brother of the  Night's Watch  for less than half a year, but no one could say he had not prepared for his vocation. At least insofar as his wardrobe was concerned. [3] 
  - thoughts of  Will 
 
 
 He lifted his sword high over his head, defiant. His hands trembled from the weight of it, or perhaps from the cold. Yet in that moment, Will thought, he was a boy no longer, but a man of the  Night's Watch . [3] 
  - thoughts of  Will 
 
 
 Too proud to sleep under my roof, him in his sable cloak and black steel.  My wives  give him big cow eyes all the same. [7] 
  -  Craster  to  Jeor Mormont 
 Family 
 
   Yohn   Unknown       
                                                                       
   Andar   Robar   Waymar   Ysilla   Mychel Redfort     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   See the  Waymar Royce  calculation. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Waymar Royce. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8   3.9     A Game of Thrones ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 21 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 1 , Bran I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 23 , Jon III. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 58 , Jon XII. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Waymar_Royce&oldid=212394 "  
 Categories :  House Royce Characters from the Vale Knights Nobles Rangers of the Night's Watch Members of the Night's Watch Wights   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
