
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Wex Pyke 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Wex Pyke 
 illustration by Julie Dillon © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Allegiance 
 House Botley House Greyjoy Culture 
 ironborn Born 
In  286 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (appendix) A Feast for Crows  (appendix) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
   Wex Pyke illustrated by Stu Barnes © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Wex Pyke  is the  bastard  son of  Sargon Botley  of  Lordsport . He was born mute. [2] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Clash of Kings 
 2.2   A Dance With Dragons 
 
 
 3   Quotes 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Wex Pyke 
 Wex has a tangle of dark brown hair with an almost feral face. He has a wide mouth, a sharp nose and a pointed chin. He learns quickly and is adept with daggers. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Wex becomes the  squire  of  Theon Greyjoy  as part of the deal that Theon strikes to buy a horse,  Smiler , from Lord  Sawane Botley  of  Lordsport . [2]  Wex recognizes  Asha Greyjoy  when she claims to be " Esgred " and embarrasses her brother, and Theon strikes the boy for smirking. [2] 
 Wex participates in the  harrying of the Stony Shore , [4]  and later in the the  capture  of  Winterfell . He sleeps below the foot of Theon's bed in Winterfell. When  Bran  and  Rickon Stark  disappear, Wex is part of the search party and he surprises a vixen at a stream. He claps his hands to point out that they are now only seeing  wolf prints  and not  Hodor 's tread, and Theon thinks the search party has been tricked. Theon sends Wex back to Winterfell before he goes to the  Acorn Water  mill with  Aggar ,  Gelmarr ,  Gynir , and  Reek . [5] 
 Wex is frightened by Theon's nightmares. [6]  The boy is the first to stand alongside Theon when Ser  Rodrik Cassel 's northmen come to  retake  the castle. [7]  Reek, actually  Ramsay Snow , attacks the northmen in a  battle at Winterfell  and then has the castle burned. [7] 
 
 A Dance With Dragons 
 Wex survives the  sack of Winterfell  by climbing the  heart tree  in the  godswood , and he witnesses the departure of Bran and Rickon Stark along with their direwolves and companions. He follows Rickon,  Osha , and  Shaggydog , learning they are abandoning the mainland and crossing the  Bay of Seals  to  Skagos . Eventually falling into  Manderly  control, Wex is taken to  White Harbor , where they realize he is not unintelligent, only mute. They begin to teach him his letters, asking only yes or no questions, and he uses chalk to draw pictures. Lord  Wyman Manderly  and  Robett Glover  learn the truth of the sack of Winterfell, and Wex repudiates Ramsay's claim of Theon being to blame. [3] 
 After  Davos Seaworth  is captured and his execution is faked, Wex is introduced to Davos in the  New Castle , and Davos finds that Wex's eyes look older than the boy's actual age. Wex reveals the location of Rickon by throwing Robett's dagger at Skagos [8]  on Wyman's map. Lord Manderly tasks Davos with retrieving Rickon. [3] 
 
 Quotes 
 Most squires have loose tongues, but Wex had been born dumb ... which didn't seem to keep him from being clever as any twelve-year-old had a right to be. [2] 
  - thoughts of  Theon Greyjoy 
 
 
 That's for enjoying this so much. And that's for not warning me. Next time, grow a tongue. [2] 
  -  Theon Greyjoy  while striking Wex
 
 
 We may never know all that happened at  Winterfell , when Ser  Rodrik Cassel  tried to take the castle back from  Theon Greyjoy 's  ironmen . The  Bastard of Bolton  claims that Greyjoy murdered Ser Rodrik  during a parley . Wex says no. Until he learns more letters we will never know half the truth ... but he came to us knowing yes and no, and those can go a long way once you find the right questions. [3] 
  -  Robett Glover  to  Davos Seaworth 
 Family 
 
           Unknown       Lord Botley       Other women                 
                                                                           
           Sawane   Germund   Lucimore   Sargon     
                                                               
                 Balon   Quellon       Wex Pyke   
                                                                                                               
   Harren   Tristifer   Symond   Harlon   Vickon   Bennarion 
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Wex Pyke  calculation. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 24 , Theon II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 29 , Davos IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 37 , Theon III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 50 , Theon IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 56 , Theon V. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 66 , Theon VI. 
 
 ↑     George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire , Wex Pyke. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Wex_Pyke&oldid=204964 "  
 Categories :  House Botley Bastards Characters from the Iron Islands House Greyjoy retainers Squires Ironborn   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
