
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Willas Tyrell 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Willas Tyrell  
 Willas Tyrell © Fantasy Flight Games 
 Allegiance 
 House Tyrell Born 
In or between  270 AC  and  276 AC [1] Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (mentioned) A Clash of Kings  (appendix) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Willas Tyrell  is a member of  House Tyrell  and the eldest son of Lord  Mace Tyrell  and Lady  Alerie Hightower . He is the heir to  Highgarden .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Storm of Swords 
 3.2   A Feast for Crows 
 3.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Quotes about Willas 
 5   Family 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Willas Tyrell 
 Willas is crippled with a bad leg. He is often noted as studious, educated, and kind, and is renowned for breeding the finest hawks, hounds, and horses in the  Seven Kingdoms . [2] [3] 
 
 History 
 Willas was born the eldest son Lord  Mace Tyrell  and Lady  Alerie Hightower . During his first  tourney , he competed against Prince  Oberyn Martell  of  Dorne , who knocked Willas from his horse. Unfortunately, his foot caught in his stirrup as he fell, and Willas pulled his horse on top of him, crushing his leg and leaving him a cripple. [4] 
 Though the incident fanned the flames of the considerable and historical enmity between Houses  Tyrell  and  Martell , Willas bore Oberyn no personal ill will and the two long remained in correspondence, sharing a passion for horseflesh. [4]  Ever since his accident, Willas has occupied himself with scholarly studies. Willas's grandmother,  Olenna Tyrell , despite having a low opinion of her son Mace, has a high opinion of her grandson. [5] 
 Willas gave his younger brother  Garlan  his nickname, "Garlan the Gallant". [6] 
 
 Recent Events 
   Back row, left to right: Willas,  Garlan ,  Loras ,  Margaery . Front:  Olenna ,  Mace ,  Alerie . Art by Cabepfir© 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Lady  Olenna Tyrell  plots to have  Sansa Stark  married to Willas. [5]  Sansa readily accepts the offer, but it is foiled after she reveals the plot to  Dontos Hollard  in the godswood of the  Red Keep . Lord  Tywin Lannister  learns of the plot from Lord  Petyr Baelish  and hastily marries Sansa to his son  Tyrion . [3]  Tywin offers his daughter, Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister , to be married to Willas, which would quieten rumors of her incest with her brother, Ser  Jaime Lannister , but the Tyrells refuse the offer. [7] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the  taking of the Shields , Willas reportedly sends messengers to Lord  Leyton Hightower  ordering him to strengthen his defences in  Oldtown . Willas also guesses correctly that the  ironborn  did not follow the coast when attacking the  Shield Islands  so the ambush would take the lords of the Shields off guard. [8] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Ser  Kevan Lannister , the regent of King  Tommen I Baratheon , thinks that Mace wants to marry Willas to Tommen's sister, the wounded Princess  Myrcella . [9] 
 
 Quotes about Willas 
 We were speaking of my grandson Willas. He is a bit old for you, to be sure, but a dear boy for all that. Not the least bit oafish, and heir to  Highgarden  besides. [5] 
  –  Olenna Tyrell  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 Willas has a bad leg but a good heart. [5] 
  -  Margaery Tyrell  to  Sansa Stark 
 
 
 The  Fat Flower  thrust him into  tourneys  at too tender an age, just as he did the other two. He wanted another  Leo Longthorn , and made himself a cripple. [3] 
  –  Oberyn Martell  to  Tyrion Lannister 
 
 
 Gentle, pious, good-hearted Willas Tyrell. Be grateful you were spared, he would have bored you spitless. [10] 
  -  Petyr Baelish  to  Sansa Stark 
 Family 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
     Luthor   Olenna Redwyne                 Gormon             Garth               Moryn           
                                                                                                                                                                               
 Mace   Alerie Hightower   Janna   Jon Fossoway   Mina   Paxter Redwyne   Garse Flowers   Garrett Flowers   Luthor   Elyn Norridge   Leo "the Lazy"               
                                                                                                                                                                                             
 Willas     Garlan   Leonette Fossoway         Horas Redwyne   Hobber Redwyne   Desmera Redwyne   Lia Serry   Theodore   Olene   Leo Blackbar   Medwick         
                                                                                                                   
     Loras   Renly Baratheon   Margaery     Joffrey Baratheon                   Elinor   Luthor       
                                                                               
                               Tommen Baratheon                                             
                                                                             
     Quentin             Normund                       Victor 
                                                                                               
     Olymer   Lysa Meadows                 Jon Bulwer   Victaria         Leo   Alys Beesbury             
                                                                                                                                                                       
   Raymund     Rickard     Megga           Alysanne Bulwer   Lyonel   Alla   Lucas   Lorent   Leona       
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑   See the  Willas Tyrell  calculation. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 16 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 38 , Tyrion V. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 6 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 28 , Sansa III. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 32 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 32 , Cersei VII. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Epilogue . 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Willas_Tyrell&oldid=204980 "  
 Categories :  House Tyrell Characters from the Reach Cripples Nobles   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
