
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Xaro Xhoan Daxos 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
 Xaro Xhoan Daxos 
 Xaro Xhoan Daxos 
 Allegiance 
the  Thirteen Culture 
 Qartheen Book(s) 
 A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons  (appears) 
 Played by 
Nonso Anozie TV series 
 Season 2 
 Xaro Xhoan Daxos  is a merchant prince of  Qarth . He is a member of the  Thirteen , a prominent group of traders within the city. In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Nonso Anozie  as an immigrant from the  Summer Isles .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   Recent Events 
 
 2.1   A Clash of Kings 
 2.2   A Storm of Swords 
 2.3   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 3   Wealth 
 4   Game of Thrones 
 5   Quotes by Xaro 
 6   References 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Xaro Xhoan Daxos 
 Xaro is a languid, elegant man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose which is crusted with rubies, opals, and flakes of jade, giving him the aspect of some strange glittery bird. [1]  His fingers are long and elegant. He can cry at will, a skill typical of  Qartheen  men. [2]  Though he wishes to marry  Daenerys Targaryen , it is heavily implied he has a homosexual orientation. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Clash of Kings 
 When  Jhogo  returns to  Vaes Tolorro  after discovering  Qarth , he is accompanied by three representatives of the city, one of them being Xaro. [4]  Having seen her  dragons , Xaro escorts  Daenerys Targaryen  to Qarth, where he offers her use of his palace during her stay.
 Xaro offers Daenerys his knowledge, telling her which members of the  Pureborn  to bribe, the ways of reaching the Pureborn, and who to go to next after she is rejected by them. Xaro also seeks to marry her, though Daenerys later learns he wishes to marry her so he can claim one of her dragons via a Qartheen marriage custom. It is also revealed that he does not seem interested in women, as Daenerys can tell that Xaro hardly deigns to notice her bare breast when she is wearing a  Qartheen gown . Daenerys notices the beautiful boys who surround the merchant prince, flitting through his palace halls in wisps of silk. [2] 
 After the destruction of the  House of the Undying , Xaro offers to take Daenerys sailing around the  Jade Sea  but is rejected. He then tells her to leave the city. [5] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Aboard the  Balerion  Daenerys contemplates the threats to her and thinks of Xaro Xhoan Daxos. She privately hopes he is not among her enemies, but remembers that the Qartheen merchant had coveted her dragons. [6] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 Xaro arrives on his ship  Silken Cloud  in  Meereen  to visit Daenerys. He brings forth a gift of thirteen ships, stating that they are hers on the condition she sails from  Slaver's Bay  to  Westeros  as her presence has disrupted the  slave  trade which many cities of  Essos , such as  Volantis  and  Qarth , depend on for their economies.
 During Xaro's visit Daenerys again dons a  Qartheen gown , leaving one breast bare in his honor. She notes that half of the men in the hall have stolen glances at her, but not Xaro. He arns her of many threats to her, including  Pyat Pree . Daenerys has the ships he brought inspected by  Groleo , but she later refuses the offer. Xaro's reply is to leave a bloodstained glove on a satin pillow, a declaration that Qarth has declared war on Daenerys. [3] 
 
 Wealth 
 Xaro owns eighty-four vessels, including  Vermillion Kiss , the galleas  Silken Cloud , and his pleasure barge. [5] [3]  He tells Daenerys that he does not own any warships. [2]  He also offers thirteen galleys, including  Banded Lizard ,  Narraqqa , and  Pureborn Princess , although Daenerys thinks the galleys were provided by all of the  Thirteen  and not specifically by Xaro. [3] 
 Xaro offers Daenerys the hospitality of his home while she is in Qarth. She had expected a grand residence but she had not expected a palace larger than many a market town. She thinks Xaro’s palace makes Magister  Illyrio's manse  in  Pentos  look like a swineherd’s hovel. [1]  The palace easily accommodates Daenerys’s little  khalasar  and their horses. An entire wing is given over to her. She has her own gardens full of fragrant lavender and mint, a marble bathing pool stocked with tiny golden fish, a scrying tower and  warlock 's maze. [1]  She also has  slaves  to tend to her every need. In her private chambers the floors are green marble and the walls are draped with colorful silk hangings that shimmer with every breath of air. It is in the palace that Daenerys hears the news from  Quhuru Mo , the captain of the  Cinnamon Wind , that the  Usurper  is dead. [1] 
 During Daenerys's stay with Xaro, he gives her many gifts, including:
 
 perfume and pomegranates. 
 tumbling  monkeys . 
 spitting snakes, scrolls from lost  Valyria . 
 an idol's head and a serpent's foot. 
 a  palanquin  of ebony and gold, and a matched set of bullocks to bear it, one white as ivory and one black as jet, with horns inlaid with jewels. 
 A thousand  knights , each in shining armor. The armor is made of silver and gold, the knights of jade and beryl and onyx and tourmaline, of amber and opal and amethyst, each as tall as Daenerys’s little finger. 
 Game of Thrones 
   Nonso Anozie as Xaro in  Game of Thrones 
 In the television adaptation,  Game of Thrones , Xaro Xhoan Daxos is an immigrant  Summer Islander . He has black skin, thinning hair, and a beard. Xaro seeks to become the King of Qarth, in a coup where he kills his fellow  Thirteen —the ruling council of Qarth—and assists  Pyat Pree  in stealing Daenerys's dragons. After defeating Pyat Pree in the  House of the Undying , Daenerys then finds her handmaid  Doreah  in bed with Xaro, and she punishes them by locking them in his vault, where they will most likely die.
 
 Quotes by Xaro 
 A craven's knife can slay a queen as easily as a hero's. [3] 
  – Xaro, to  Daenerys Targeryen 
 
 
 I no longer lust for  dragons . I saw their work at  Astapor . [3] 
  – Xaro, to  Daenerys Targeryen 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 27 , Daenerys II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   2.2     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 40 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 16 , Daenerys III. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑  5.0   5.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 63 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 8 , Daenerys I. 
 
 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Xaro_Xhoan_Daxos&oldid=215711 "  
 Categories :  Characters from Qarth Merchants The Thirteen   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
