
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Yohn Royce 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
  Yohn Royce  
 
 Alias 
Bronze Yohn Title 
Lord of  Runestone Allegiance 
 House Royce Lords Declarant Culture 
 Valemen Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (mentioned) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (appears) A Dance with Dragons  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
Rupert Vansittart TV series 
 Season 4  |  Season 5  |  Season 6  |  Season 7 
 Yohn Royce , known as  Bronze Yohn , is the Lord of  Runestone  and head of the senior branch of  House Royce . He is sworn to  House Arryn . He has three sons, Ser  Andar , Ser  Robar , and Ser  Waymar , and also a daughter,  Ysilla . [1] [2]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Rupert Vansittart .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 3.3   A Storm of Swords 
 3.4   A Feast for Crows 
 3.5   A Dance with Dragons 
 
 
 4   Family 
 5   References 
 6   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance 
 See also:  Images of Yohn Royce 
 Yohn's face is lined and he has grey hair, slate-grey eyes and very bushy eyebrows. He is as tall as  Sandor Clegane  and has large, gnarled hands, with a booming voice to match. [3]  He has a set of bronze armor, thousands of years old that is inscribed with runes that ward him from harm. [1] 
 
 History 
 Lord Yohn is a tourney  knight , who took part in the  tourney at Harrenhal , where he was defeated by Prince  Rhaegar Targaryen , and in the  tourney at Lannisport , where he was defeated by Ser  Jorah Mormont . [4] [5]  He defeated  Thoros of Myr  in the melee at the  tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day  with a common mace after the fire of Thoros's sword had guttered out. [6] 
 Lord  Tywin Lannister  offered his son  Tyrion  for marriage within House Royce but was rejected. [7] 
 Lord Royce escorted his youngest son north, when Ser  Waymar  joined the  Night's Watch  in  296 AC . They stayed in  Winterfell  on their way, where Yohn participated in hunts and practice sparring with Lord  Eddard Stark  and Ser  Rodrik Cassel , defeating them both in the latter. [1] [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 Yohn's youngest son, Ser  Waymar , is killed by  Others   beyond the Wall . [8] 
 Yohn takes part in the  Hand's tourney  in  King's Landing , attending with his sons  Andar  and  Robar . [1]  He stays in King's Landing, participating in the boar hunt that kills King  Robert I Baratheon . [9]  As Robert lies dying, Bronze Yohn is named by Lord  Petyr Baelish  as a possible ally for Lord  Eddard Stark  against Queen  Cersei Lannister  in the matter of the succession, though ultimately Ned chooses to rely on the  gold cloaks . [10]  During  Joffrey I Baratheon 's first court session after Ned's imprisonment, Lord Royce is listed by Grand Maester  Pycelle  among those required to swear fealty to the new king. [11] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
 Yohn's middle son, Ser  Robar , is slain by an enraged Ser  Loras Tyrell  after  the murder  of King  Renly Baratheon . [12] 
 
 A Storm of Swords 
 Yohn is mentioned as a suitor of Lady  Lysa Arryn  by Ser  Kevan Lannister . [7]  According to Lysa herself, Yohn is pressuring her into participating in the  War of the Five Kings , presumably in defense of  Riverrun  against the  Lannister  forces. [13] 
 
 A Feast for Crows 
 After the death of Lysa, Lord Yohn brings five other lords of the Vale to Runestone where they sign a document forming the  Lords Declarant . Yohn's cousin, Lord  Nestor Royce , informs  Petyr Baelish  about Yohn's intent to question  Marillion  about the murder of Lysa and to remove Petyr from his position as  Lord Protector of the Vale . [14] 
 The Lords Declarant later ascend the  Eyrie  to meet with Lord Baelish. Yohn possibly recognizes  Sansa Stark , but Nestor explains she is Petyr's natural daughter, Alayne Stone. Yohn declares his intent to foster the young Lord  Robert Arryn  at  Runestone  as his ward and squire and to raise him to be a knight that Lord  Jon Arryn  would be proud of, with the group's backing. He prevents Ser  Lyn Corbray  from attacking Ser  Lothor Brune , but later departs the Eyrie in anger when the other Lords Declarant allow Lord Baelish a year more as Lord Protector. Petyr tells Sansa he believes Lord Yohn will be the only member of the Lords Declarant who will continue to be a threat to his plans. [3] 
 Bronze Yohn later holds a small melee at Runestone only for squires.  Harrold Hardyng  wins the melee and Yohn  knights  him as his reward. Lord Royce's daughter,  Ysilla , marries Ser  Mychel Redfort . [2] 
 
 A Dance with Dragons 
 News reaches  Sisterton  and  White Harbor  about Lord Yohn publicly vowing to remove Lord  Petyr Baelish  from power in the  Vale . [15] 
 
 Family 
 
   Yohn   Unknown       
                                                                       
   Andar   Robar   Waymar   Ysilla   Mychel Redfort     
 
 
 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 29 , Sansa II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 41 , Alayne II. 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 23 , Alayne I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 58 , Eddard XV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 12 , Daenerys I. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 10 , Davos I. 
 
 ↑  7.0   7.1     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 19 , Tyrion III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Prologue . 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 43 , Eddard XI. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 47 , Eddard XIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 57 , Daenerys V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 36 , Tyrion VIII. 
 
 ↑     A Storm of Swords ,  Chapter 68 , Sansa VI. 
 
 ↑     A Feast for Crows ,  Chapter 10 , Sansa I. 
 
 ↑     A Dance with Dragons ,  Chapter 15 , Davos II. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Yohn Royce  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Yohn_Royce&oldid=211969 "  
 Categories :  House Royce Characters from the Vale Knights Lords Declarant Nobles   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
