
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
 
 Our Sites  Westeros Forum of Ice and Fire Blood of Dragons MUSH Community portal  Books Chapter Summaries Characters Houses of Westeros Timeline of major events Geograpy Culture TV Show   
 
 Login   Español Français Русский 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interact  Recent Changes Random Article Talk  Edit  ‌ History   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Yoren 
 
 From A Wiki of Ice and Fire 
 
 
Jump to:  navigation ,  search 
 
   Yoren   
 Yoren by  Amok© 
 Allegiance 
 Night's Watch Culture 
 Westeros Died 
In  299 AC , at  Gods Eye Book(s) 
 A Game of Thrones  (appears) A Clash of Kings  (appears) A Storm of Swords  (mentioned) A Feast for Crows  (mentioned) 
 Played by 
 Francis Magee TV series 
 Season 1  |  Season 2 
 Yoren  is a sworn brother of the  Night's Watch . A recruiter, or  wandering crow , he travels the  Seven Kingdoms , and is responsible for collecting recruits and prisoners who would take the black. He then escorts them to  Castle Black  for training. [1]  In the television adaptation  Game of Thrones  he is portrayed by  Francis Magee .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   Appearance and Character 
 2   History 
 3   Recent Events 
 
 3.1   A Game of Thrones 
 3.2   A Clash of Kings 
 
 
 4   Yoren's Recruits 
 5   Quotes by Yoren 
 6   Quotes about Yoren 
 7   See also 
 8   References 
 9   External Links 
 
 
 Appearance and Character 
 See also:  Images of Yoren 
 Yoren is stooped and sinister with a twisted shoulder. His coarse and ugly features are hidden behind a thick and matted black beard. He is lice-ridden and smells foul, wearing garments that are tattered and have long since faded to grey. [1] [2] 
 Yoren is hard and grim, and he has little patience for fools. [2]  He is not the most refined person but is loyal and trustworthy. [3]  Yoren's manners are brusque and he does not mince his words. However, he believes in the rules of the  Night's Watch  and laments the fact that the order is not treated with the same respect it used to be. He frequently chews  sourleaf  and has the habit of spitting the juice out if he wants to express contempt about something. Yoren is familiar with  House Lannister guards  in  King's Landing . [4] 
 
 History 
 Yoren suffered a shoulder injury that made it impossible for him to fight well any longer. He has spent the past thirty years traveling the  Seven Kingdoms  and recruiting for the Night's Watch, losing only three recruits in that time. His travels frequently bring him to  Winterfell , thus he knows the members of  House Stark  and has a certain loyalty to them. [3] 
 
 Recent Events 
 A Game of Thrones 
 At a wooden holdfast at the edge of the  wolfswood , Yoren joins the party led by  Benjen Stark  that is heading north to the  Wall , with  Tyrion Lannister  and  Jon Snow  also coming along. He brings two young rapists from the  Fingers  as recruits for the  Night's Watch . Yoren's ragged appearance as well as his charges serve as a rude awakening to Jon, who might have thought that the Watch just consisted of noble men like his uncle Benjen. [1] 
 Yoren arrives at  Winterfell  in the company of four black brothers and Tyrion, the latter receiving a cold welcome from  Robb Stark . Yoren is present when Tyrion hands over his plans for building a saddle that can carry the crippled  Bran Stark . As Yoren is senior among the Night's Watch men, he is seated with Robb and Maester  Luwin  for dinner that night. Yoren refers to Jon as the bane of Ser  Alliser Thorne , and he angers Bran by stating that the missing Benjen is probably dead. [5] 
 After  Catelyn Stark  arrests Tyrion at the  crossroads , Yoren continues to King's Landing to inform Lord  Eddard Stark . [6]  Yoren remains in the capital to gather more recruits. At some point, Yoren is approached by  a man  who gives him gold to take  a boy  with him to the Wall, and after Eddard's imprisonment Yoren is told to be ready to take Eddard to the Wall. [4] 
 Yoren is present at the  Great Sept of Baelor  where Eddard confesses and is executed instead of being banished to the Wall. Yoren recognizes  Arya Stark  amidst the crowd and seizes her after her father’s execution, calling her "boy" and dragging her away. [7] 
 
 A Clash of Kings 
   Francis Magee as Yoren in  Game of Thrones 
 Yoren cuts  Arya Stark 's hair to a stubble with his dagger so she can pass as an orphan boy called "Arry". He intends to bring her with his band of recruits headed for the  Wall  and is going to drop her off at  Winterfell . Yoren's band consists of approximately thirty people. In addition, he takes along five wagons laden with supplies as well as two coursers and a couple of donkeys for the boys. [4] 
 While heading north on the  kingsroad , Yoren stops Arya from beating  Hot Pie  with a wooden sword. He strikes her behind with a stick, but gives her  sourleaf  for the pain. He shares how Lord  Eddard Stark  was supposed to join the  Night's Watch  and that something must have gone wrong, arousing Arya's suspicion that King  Joffrey I Baratheon  is responsible for her father's death. [4] 
 The band is confronted with refugees warning of  war  and armed men.  Praed  dies, only the fourth recruit Yoren has lost. Yoren remains undisturbed at first, insisting that the Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the realm and that his band will be safe. [8] [3] 
 At an inn on the kingsroad where Yoren protects Arya from revealing her  northern  identity, a group of  gold cloaks  present a warrant for  Gendry , signed by Queen Regent  Cersei Lannister . Yoren refuses their demand that the boy be handed over, pointing out that laws protect members of the Night's Watch. Yoren makes the unimpressed gold cloaks retreat, although they announce they will be back. Yoren gives Arya and Gendry the two coursers, advising them to flee as fast as they can if the gold cloaks reappear. [8] 
 Avoiding the kingsroad afterwards, the band marches west- and northwards toward the  Gods Eye , which Yoren wants to pass along its western shore. The hostility of the fieldhands at  Briarwhite , who take the recruits for possible looters, make Yoren increasingly bitter about disrespect shown to the Night's Watch. Yoren admits to Arya that he might have made a mistake taking orphans away from the safety of the city or, at least, not going by ship to the Wall this time. [3] 
 The band arrives at the eastern side of  the river  running south from the Gods Eye. Having no means to cross the river with their wagons, Yoren wants to rent a boat in an  unnamed town  on the southern shore of the Gods Eye and to cross it towards  Harrentown , going on from there or finding shelter with Lady  Shella Whent  at  Harrenhal . However, when they arrive at the town, it is deserted and no boats can be found. [9] 
 While Yoren stays in an abandoned holdfast overnight, a party led by Ser  Amory Lorch , part of the Lannister campaign in the riverlands, arrives and torches the town. In the name of King Joffrey, Amory commands Yoren to open the gate. Again pointing out that the Night's Watch takes no part in the war, Yoren refuses, prompting Lorch to order his men to storm the holdfast and kill all inside. They open the attack by thrusting a spear in Yoren's direction but kill  Woth  instead. Yoren organizes the defense of the walls, and during the ensuing assault he kills the man with whom he had the first exchange that night. When he realizes that the attackers have won, Yoren tells Arya that she and Gendry should rescue as many boys as possible, directing her towards a tunnel they found earlier. [9] 
 Arya and Gendry return to the holdfast the next evening, after the departure of Amory's men, but the rest of Yoren's band has been killed. They find Yoren's body with his skull split by an axe and surrounded by the bodies of four enemies. They bury him on Arya's insistence, leaving the bodies of the others as they have no time to bury them all. [10] 
 Back in King's Landing,  Tyrion Lannister  is told by  Bronn  that a black brother has arrived from the Wall. Tyrion is disappointed when he learns it is Ser  Alliser Thorne  instead of Yoren. [11]  After the  fall of Harrenhal , Amory is fed to a black bear which reminds Arya of Yoren. [12] 
 
 Yoren's Recruits 
 The last recruits that Yoren tried to bring to the Wall with their status and individual fate:
 
 Arry  --  "orphan"  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye 
 Biter  --  criminal  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye, but was killed the following year by Gendry at the crossroads inn 
 Cutjack  --  recruit  -- survived attack at the  Gods Eye town 
 Dobber  --  criminal  -- died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Gendry  --  orphan  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye 
 Gerren  --  criminal  -- fate unknown, but probably died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Hot Pie  --  orphan  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye 
 Jaqen H'ghar  --  criminal  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye 
 Koss  --  criminal  -- died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Kurz  --  criminal  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye with a wound, but later died of an infection 
 Lommy Greenhands  --  orphan  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye, but was later killed by  Raff the Sweetling  because a wound was slowing him down 
 Murch  --  status unknown  -- fate unknown, but probably died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Praed  --  recruit  -- died of natural causes on the  kingsroad 
 Qyle  --  recruit  -- died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Reysen  --  recruit  -- fate unknown, but probably died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Rorge  --  criminal  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye, but was killed the following year by  Brienne of Tarth  at the  crossroads inn 
 Tarber  --  orphan  -- survived attack at the Gods Eye 
 Urreg  --  status unknown  -- fate unknown, but probably died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Woth  --  recruit  -- died in attack at the Gods Eye 
 Quotes by Yoren 
 I'm here to find men for the  Wall , and when  Robert  next holds court, I'll bend the knee and cry our need, see if the king and his  Hand  have some scum in the dungeons they'd be well rid of. [6] 
  - Yoren to  Eddard Stark 
 
 
 That's no law, just a sword. Happens I got one, too. [8] 
  – Yoren to a  gold cloak 
 
 
 I got thirty this time, men and boys all bound for the  Wall , and don’t be thinking they’re like that  bastard brother o’ yours . Lord  Eddard  gave me pick o’ the dungeons, and I didn’t find no little lordlings down there. This lot, half o’ them would turn you over to  the queen  quick as spit for a pardon and maybe a few silvers. The other half’d do the same, only they’d rape you first. [8] 
  – Yoren to  Arya Stark 
 Quotes about Yoren 
 Ser  Amory  pleaded and sobbed and clung to the legs of  his captors , until  Rorge  pulled him loose, and  Shagwell  kicked him down into the bear pit. The bear is all in black, Arya thought. Like Yoren. [12] 
  - thoughts of  Arya Stark 
 See also 
 Yoren/Theories 
 References 
 
 
 ↑  1.0   1.1   1.2     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 13 , Tyrion II. 
 
 ↑  2.0   2.1   A Game of Thrones RPG book 
 
 ↑  3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 9 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑  4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 1 , Arya I. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 24 , Bran IV. 
 
 ↑  6.0   6.1     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 32 , Arya III. 
 
 ↑     A Game of Thrones ,  Chapter 65 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑  8.0   8.1   8.2   8.3     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 5 , Arya II. 
 
 ↑  9.0   9.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 14 , Arya IV. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 19 , Arya V. 
 
 ↑     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 17 , Tyrion IV. 
 
 ↑  12.0   12.1     A Clash of Kings ,  Chapter 47 , Arya IX. 
 
 
 External Links 
 Yoren  on the  Game of Thrones wiki . 
 
   
Retrieved from " https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Yoren&oldid=212487 "  
 Categories :  Casualties of the War of the Five Kings Characters killed by Amory Lorch Characters from Westeros Members of the Night's Watch Wandering crows   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy policy About A Wiki of Ice and Fire Disclaimers Login CC-BY-SA Powered by MediaWiki   
 
   
